IN THE COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
Revised
(Not) Restricted
Suitable for Publication
AT MELBOURNE
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

CR -16-01190


DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS



v



CAMERON BLUM



---


JUDGE:
HER HONOUR JUDGE PATRICK
WHERE HELD:
Melbourne
DATE OF HEARING:

DATE OF SENTENCE:
5 October 2016
CASE MAY BE CITED AS:
DPP v Blum
MEDIUM NEUTRAL CITATION:
[2016] VCC 1462

REASONS FOR SENTENCE
---
Subject:
Catchwords:
Legislation Cited:
Cases Cited:
Sentence:
---

APPEARANCES:

Counsel
Solicitors
For the Director of Public 
Prosecutions
Ms E. Tueno




For the Accused
Mr J. McLoughlin







HER HONOUR:  
1	Cameron Steven Blum, you have pleaded guilty to one charge of aggravated 
burglary, Charge 1; one charge of common law assault, Charge 2; one charge 
of false imprisonment, Charge 3; one charge of theft, Charge 4; one charge of 
possessing a drug of dependence, Charge 5; and one charge of trafficking in  
a drug of dependence, Charge 6; and one summary charge, being Summary 
Charge 13, of dealing with property suspected of being the proceeds of crime.  
2	The maximum penalty for aggravated burglary is 25 years' imprisonment.  The 
maximum penalty for common law assault is five years' imprisonment.  The 
maximum penalty for each of false imprisonment and theft is ten years' 
imprisonment.  The maximum penalty for possessing a drug of dependence in 
the circumstances that you possessed this drug is five penalty units.  
Trafficking in a drug of dependence has a maximum penalty of 15 years' 
imprisonment.  Dealing with property suspected of being proceeds of crime 
has a maximum penalty of two years' imprisonment.  
3	The prosecution sought an order for the disposal of certain items which were 
seized and the making of that order was not opposed.  
4	The circumstances of your offending are set out in the Summary of 
Prosecution Opening on Plea in some detail.  The charges arise from an 
incident on 7 April 2016.  On the previous day, you went with a female friend 
and others to  
a property in Langwarrin to assist your friend to buy a car.  The owner of the 
property ran a mechanic's business from the property and his employee sold 
you a Ford Falcon sedan for $5,000.  You were named as the transferee on 
the VicRoads application for transfer of the registration.  You checked the 
registration and formed the view that the car was stolen.  In large part, this 
was because you had bought a white car and the description on the VicRoads 
information was of a yellow car.  
5	Between about 5.30 am and 9.15 am on 7 April 2016, you engaged in a text 
message exchange with the seller.  In that exchange, you demanded a 
refund.  The seller refused and you said you were going to the property with 
the paperwork. At around 5.58 am on 7 April 2016, you and two other 
unknown male co-offenders had driven to the property and parked your cars 
in the middle of the driveway.  You are charged with various offences that 
occurred after that, on the basis that the three of you were criminally involved 
in the offending.  
6	You entered the house on the property from the rear and the other two  
co-offenders entered through the front door.  You were in possession of an 
imitation semi-automatic handgun when you entered the house.  Those are 
the circumstances of Charge 1 of aggravated burglary.  
7	One son of the property owner was in his bedroom when you entered.  One of 
the co-offenders entered his bedroom, ripped a poster from the wall, threw 
furniture around and demanded that the son remove his blanket.  The  
co-offender kicked the son in the mouth while he was still in bed.  He suffered 
swelling and laceration to his low lip on the right-hand side.  That is the 
subject matter of Charge 2 of common law assault.
8	You went into the bedroom of a second son and woke him up.  You told him to 
get up and put his pants on.  You then walked him into the first son's 
bedroom.  The two men were then interrogated by you and the co-offenders, 
whilst one of you was holding the gun.  The men were asked where the seller 
of the car was and where valuables were kept.  The three of you then took the 
two victims into the shed in the backyard.  You talked about the seller having 
sold you the car for $5,000, which you believed was stolen.  
9	The two men were then taken back outside into the backyard.  The three of 
you offenders looked around the shed and demanded the key to the gun safe.  
One of the co-offenders removed a bow from the shed and told the others he 
was leaving and walked down the driveway.  You were talking to the two 
victims about scuba gear in the shed.  The two victims then walked back into 
the shed.  You were demanding that the second son call the seller.  There 
was some discussion with you about finding the number and various missed 
called were exchanged.  
10	The two sons went outside the shed with you and into the workshop and 
called the seller, whom you spoke to about having sold you a stolen vehicle.  
After that, you took the bullet out of the gun and handed the gun to the two 
victims.  You then asked again the second son to message the seller.  There 
was discussion as to the paperwork in relation to the car.  Ultimately you and 
the remaining co-offender went outside to the car that had been sold by the 
seller to you and got the VicRoads transfer of registration paperwork.  That 
paperwork showed that the seller lived at another address and that the inside 
of the car was yellow.  
11	It appears that at this point you realised that the car had originally been yellow 
and had been resprayed white, and accordingly it did meet the description on 
the VicRoads paperwork.  You then apologised and gave back the keys you 
had taken from the house.  You got into the car and started the engine.  Your 
co-offender walked the two men back to the house.  Before you and your  
co-offender left, you told the two victims not to call the police or you would 
come back, even if it took 20 years.  
12	In addition to the bow taken by one of the co-offenders, you and the other  
co-offender stole a gold ring, a watch and .22 calibre ammunition, belonging 
to the owner of the premises.  That is the subject matter of Charge 4 of theft.  
13	The period during in which you walked the men around the shed and into the 
backyard and back into the shed again, is the subject matter of Charge 3 of 
false imprisonment.  
14	Later that day, one of the two men telephoned his father and the police were 
ultimately telephoned. You were arrested on 13 April 2016.  Police conducted 
searches of the vehicle that you were driving.  Police found a number of items, 
including a zip-lock bag containing ice crystal.  You admitted to having been 
given the ice.  There were a number of other items found in the car, including 
a building laser level and Skoda scraper tool, which are the subject matter of 
Summary Charge 13.
15	The police found green vegetable matter in a packet of cigarettes in the car, 
and that is the subject matter of Charge 5 of possession of a drug of 
dependence.
16	You were interviewed by police and made significant admissions.  You said 
that you had been angry and that you went to the house because you were 
trying to call the man who had sold you the car.  You said that the ice was 
yours and you were asked what you did and you said that you had dealt in 
drugs.  On the basis of that admission and the possession of the drugs, you 
are charged with Charge 6, which is trafficking in a drug of dependence, on 
the basis that you had at least some of the drugs in your possession for the 
purposes of sale.  There was a relatively small amount of 28 grams of 
methylamphetamine and I accept that you may have had some of that for your 
own use.  
17	In respect to the cannabis that was found, you are sentenced on the basis that 
that was a small amount for your own use.
18	During the interview with police, you expressed remorse.  You said that you 
felt bad about what you had done and felt bad because the two men had been 
threatened because of you and your actions.  
19	The matter proceeded by way of a straight hand-up brief at a committal 
mention stage and the prosecution concedes that your plea should be treated 
as an early plea.  
20	Two victim impact statements were tendered from the victims.  The first 
brother said that he was a bit nervous for a few days afterwards when he 
heard people talking and using the front door late at night.  He said, in relation 
to being kicked in the face, his jaw hurt slightly for a couple of weeks 
afterwards and that he has a very slight scar on his lip.  
21	The second brother says that after the incident, he was unable to sleep 
comfortably for several weeks.  He said he had become more anxious and 
was locking the doors regularly.  He said he had trouble working, as he could 
not keep focused.  
22	In sentencing you, I have taken into account your personal circumstances.   
I have derived those circumstances from your counsel's submissions and the 
exhibit which were tendered on your behalf.  You are now 24 years old.  You 
clearly had a very disrupted and unstable childhood.  You have three siblings 
and five step-siblings.  Your father was a drug user and your mother had 
mental health problems and had been a past drug user.  Your parents 
separated whilst you were in primary school.  You went to a number of 
different schools.  You lived with your father for some periods of time.  You 
had learning difficulties at school and were diagnosed with ADHD at about the 
age of ten.  
23	You were introduced to drugs at an early age, commencing with cannabis use 
at the age of 13.  Very sadly, your father introduced you to amphetamine use 
while you were a teenager and that use escalated to daily use.  
24	You were a very good football player, but you were involved in a serious car 
accident when you were 16.  You suffered significant injuries and could not 
play sport afterwards, due to those injuries and their consequences.  I gather 
from the material that you still suffer some pain on occasion from those 
injuries.  After leaving school at 17 or 18, you worked in a number of jobs, 
including as  
a labourer.  You were very seriously assaulted in February 2014, when your 
throat was cut by an associate of a former girlfriend.  
25	You have admitted a prior criminal history, commencing in 2008.  You have 
had a number of court appearances, firstly in the Children's Court and then in 
the Magistrates' Court, for driving offences and offences involving dishonesty 
and violence.  In August 2015 and November 2015, you were sentenced to 
short periods of imprisonment.  From the exhibits tendered, it is apparent that 
you made some efforts at trying to remain drug-free with assistance while on 
bail.  Unfortunately those attempts were unsuccessful and at the time of the 
offending for which I am dealing with, you were again using ice on a regular 
basis.  
26	A report dated 3 September 2016 from Ms Carla Lechner, psychologist, was 
tendered as Exhibit 4.  Ms Lechner did not do a formal assessment, but 
assessed your intelligence as being of low/average.  She says that when you 
are not drug-affected, you are able to reflect on the impact that your behaviour 
has on yourself and others.  She says that you tend to be impulsive in nature 
and easily overwhelmed by too much incoming information, which can lead to 
frustration and anger.  She is of the view that this is likely a function of you 
having ongoing ADHD problems.  She also says that your use of ice 
aggravates your difficulties in dealing with complex situations.  She says you 
have difficulty managing your negative feelings or trigger to your negative 
feelings. She does say that you expressed shame to her about your behaviour 
on occasions when you were using drugs and got very angry and would act in 
a violent way towards people.  
27	It appears from Mc Lechner's report that you are now in touch with your father 
and mother, although you are closer to your father.  You are close to your 
girlfriend and hope to have a future relationship with her. 
28	Ms Lechner says that you present with symptoms of stimulant use disorder in 
early remission, with also symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder, arising 
from the incident when your throat was cut.  
29	Ms Lechner says that you have a history of offending, in the setting of a 
chronic drug addiction that has undermined your social, vocational and 
emotional development.  She comments on the environment in which you 
were raised and that you had been consuming ice for days prior to this 
offending.  Ms Lechner is of the view that you are deeply regretful for your 
actions and have made a positive start to your rehabilitation in custody, but 
that you require further counselling supports in custody and on your release 
into the community.
30	Ms Lechner says that you tend to be impulsive, as I have said, and have a low 
tolerance for frustration.  She says that you block out internal distress with 
increased substance use and have also used substance use to block out 
chronic pain.  Ms Lechner assessed you, at the time of her assessment, as 
having clinical levels of depression and anxiety, at the top end of the 
moderate range, mainly reactive to being in custody.  She also says your 
symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder have escalated in the prison 
environment.  She is of the view that you would benefit from a treatment that 
would assist you with developing mood management strategies.  
31	In defence submissions, your counsel submitted that the appropriate sentence 
would be a sentence of imprisonment, to be followed by a community 
correction order.  Your counsel particularly relied on your personal 
circumstances and background, together with your confession to the police,  
co-operation and plea of guilty, in mitigation of sentence.  He relied on your 
remorse and prospects of rehabilitation.  Your counsel also relied on the fact 
that you are a youthful offender.  
32	The prosecutor, in sentencing submissions, submitted that a sentence of 
imprisonment was the only appropriate sentence which would reflect the 
seriousness of the offending.  The prosecutor described the situation as being 
one of a confrontational aggravated burglary, in line with the comments of the 
Court of Appeal in Hogarth v The Queen [2012] 37 VR 658.  
33	Mr Blum, you have clearly engaged in serious offending.  The maximum 
penalty for aggravated burglary of 25 years' imprisonment demonstrates the 
seriousness with which Parliament, on behalf of the community, takes this 
offence.  Aggravated burglary involves a serious violation of the security of  
a person's home.  It is an invasion of a person's home.  People are entitled to 
feel safe in their houses and not have someone coming in, especially in the 
dead of night.  
34	You went there because you wanted to get your money back and you were 
angry about the car.  You are charged on the basis that you intended to 
assault someone.  You went in the back door, while the others went in the 
front door.  You had a weapon with you.  I accept that the weapon was an 
imitation one, but it was designed to look real and to act as a threat towards 
the people in the house.  There were three of you who went together and that 
makes it more serious.  It was, as I said, during the night and you believed 
that people would be there, although there was some confusion as to who 
might or might not be there.  
35	Once the aggravated burglary was complete, you went on, between the three 
of you, to threaten and interrogate the occupants, physically assaulting one 
person.  You took them from place to place in the house and the shed and 
made demands of them.  You stole items.  
36	As I have said, aggravated burglary is a particularly serious offence, and in 
this case, has the serious element of you going there with the purpose of 
confronting the seller of the car, who you mistakenly thought would be there.  I 
accept that once you realised that the seller was not there, the behaviour 
towards the other men calmed down.  Ultimately when you realised the car 
was probably not stolen, having examined the colour and the VicRoads 
papers, you did apologise to the occupants of the house.
37	I accept also, from the statements and the victim impact statements, that the 
two men who were the victims of this offending, were fairly robust and not 
nearly as frightened of you and the situation as others might have been.  That 
said,  
I regard the actual aggravated burglary as being in the mid-range of such 
offending.  
38	General deterrence is an important sentencing consideration.  Your offending 
must be strongly denounced and significantly punished.  Community 
protection requires that others are deterred from such offending by a 
sufficiently severe sentence.  
39	Your possession of the drugs is consistent with your use of methamphetamine 
and cannabis over a long period of time.  It is significant that you made 
admissions in relation to those matters.  That said, trafficking in drugs of 
dependence is an evil trade.  People who sell drugs to other people make 
profit out of other people's weakness.  You were well placed to know what the 
bad effects of drugs are on individuals and the community, yet you were 
prepared to sell drugs to other people.
40	The remaining offending also warrants additional punishment, especially in 
relation to the assault and the false imprisonment.  These are serious matters.  
Physical violence was used, albeit not directly by you, and you deprived the 
two men of their liberty.  
41	There are a number of matters which I have taken into account in mitigation of 
sentence.  You are entitled to a significant discount for you plea of guilty.   
I accept that you are genuinely remorseful.  You apologised at the time and 
you expressed your remorse to the police.  Your plea of guilty has also saved 
the time, inconvenience and expense of a trial.  You made significant 
admissions to the police and that goes in your favour.
42	You are a youthful offender with a very troubled background.  The difficulties 
in your background mean that it would have been difficult for you to develop 
proper moral judgment about drug offending and other forms of offending, and 
I have taken that into account.
43	I note that you have completed courses in custody and remain drug-free whilst 
you have been in custody on remand.  It appears from the material provided 
that when you are drug-free, you are able to work and lead a stable life.  
Sadly, you have had difficulties in remaining drug-free.  The attitudes that you 
currently express and your growing maturity, suggests that you would, if you 
were able to remain drug-free, be able to lead a stable and positive life.  I 
consider that your prospects of rehabilitation at present are reasonable, 
despite your significant prior criminal history.  
44	I have taken into account that custody is more difficult for you because of your 
depression and post-traumatic stress disorder.  
45	Your rehabilitation is an important sentencing consideration, but the need to 
give effect to appropriate denunciation, just punishment, general deterrence, 
community protection and specific deterrence, in the light of such serious 
offending, leads me to the conclusion that imprisonment and a community 
correction order would not meet those sentencing objectives, even in the light 
of the matters that I have taken into account in mitigation of sentence.  
46	I have taken into account the principles of parsimony, totality and 
proportionality, in fixing the degree of cumulation.  I have also taken into 
account the need to avoid double-punishment, in a situation where there is an 
aggravated burglary and following offending.  
47	I have taken your relative youth, matters in mitigation and remorse into 
account, also in setting a shorter non-parole period than I would have 
otherwise.  
48	Could you please stand, Mr Blum?
49	On Charge 1 of aggravated burglary, you are convicted and sentenced to  
a term of imprisonment of four years.  
50	On Charge 2 of common law assault, you are convicted and sentenced to  
a term of imprisonment of one year.  
51	On Charge 3 of false imprisonment, you are convicted and sentenced to a 
term of imprisonment of one year.
52	On Charge 4 of theft, you are convicted and sentenced to a term of 
imprisonment of six months.
53	On Charge 5 of possessing a drug of dependence, you are convicted and 
fined $400.
54	On Charge 6 of trafficking in a drug of dependence, you are convicted and 
sentenced to six months' imprisonment.  
55	On Charge 13 of dealing with the proceeds of crime, you are convicted and 
sentenced to two months' imprisonment.
56	The sentence on Charge 1 is the base sentence.  Three months of the 
sentence on Charge 2 and six months of the sentence on Charge 3, are to be 
served cumulatively on each other, and on the sentence on Charge 1.  
57	The total effective sentence is four years and nine months.  
58	I fix three years as the period you are required to serve before being eligible 
for release on parole.
59	I declare that you have served 175 days of this sentence by way of  
pre-sentence detention.  
60	But for your plea of guilty, I would have sentenced you to a term of 
imprisonment of six years and four months, with a non-parole period of four 
years and two months.  
61	I have made the orders for disposal that have been sought.  
- - -




VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT REPORTING SERVICE
7/436 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne Vic 3000 - Telephone 9603 9134
186103



.JP:PJ	1	SENTENCE
		DPP v Blum
