IN THE COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
Revised
(Not) Restricted
Suitable for Publication
AT MELBOURNE
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

CR 16-01892


DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS



v



JAMIE BOWDEN



---


JUDGE:
HIS HONOUR JUDGE DYER
WHERE HELD:
Melbourne
DATE OF HEARING:
17 February 2017
DATE OF SENTENCE:
22 February 2017
CASE MAY BE CITED AS:
DPP v Bowden
MEDIUM NEUTRAL CITATION:
[2017] VCC 133

REASONS FOR SENTENCE
---
Subject:
Catchwords:
Legislation Cited:
Cases Cited:
Sentence:
---

APPEARANCES:

Counsel
Solicitors
For the Director of Public 
Prosecutions
Ms S. Holmes
Office of Public 
Prosecutions



For the Accused
Mr N. Power
James Dowsley & 
Associates






HIS HONOUR:  
1	Mr Bowden, I have given a copy of the typed sentence in its complete form to 
Mr Power and you will have an opportunity to read that, but I am going to read 
from the sentence and I am addressing my comments to you so that you can 
hear them.  You can remain seated at present.
2	On 17 February 2017, you, Jamie Bowden, pleaded guilty to the indictment 
containing a single charge, being aggravated burglary contrary to s.77(1) of 
the Crimes Act 1958.  The maximum penalty for this offence is 25 years' 
imprisonment.
3	The prosecution opening was tendered in evidence before me as Exhibit A 
and read aloud in court.  In summary form, you gained entry to the victim's 
property by climbing over a fence and smashing the window of the front 
bedroom where the female victim was sleeping.  At the time, you were 
carrying a hammer and a kitchen knife.  The victim has awoken moments 
before she heard the sound of the window smashing and observed you 
climbing through the window.
4	You stood at the foot of the victim's bed holding the hammer and the knife 
above your head.  You appeared angry, and the victim was obviously terrified 
by the offending.  It would appear that after a matter of a few minutes with the 
victim pleading with you, you left her house without further incident.
5	There are no adverse matters alleged against you in relation to any prior 
offending and I accept that you largely cooperated with police and you have 
pleaded guilty at an early stage.  The victim has been spared the trauma of 
giving evidence and the community saved the cost of a trial.  You are 
therefore entitled to the benefit of s.6AAA of the Sentencing Act 1991.
6	Nevertheless, the offending for which I am required to pass sentence upon 
you is, in my view, most serious.  The victim impact statement made on 19 
May 2016, some six weeks after your offending, was read in court and has 
been tendered in evidence before me as Exhibit B.  Unsurprisingly, the victim 
notes a constant fear of being unsafe in her own home, fear of harm to herself 
or those close to her, and recurrent feelings of panic, illness, anger, anxiety 
and memory loss in addition to frequent emotional outbursts.  These are only 
a few limited examples of the matters enumerated in her victim impact 
statement which flow from your offending.
7	Your personal circumstances were put to me in some detail by Mr Power who 
appeared on your behalf in this plea hearing.  Significantly, you are 53 years 
of age and there are no prior offences alleged against you.  Additionally, you 
were born with  profound hearing loss which I accept has significantly 
impacted upon your ability to develop or maintain forms of social 
communication and long lasting friendships throughout your life.
8	You were examined by a psychologist, Mr Mathew Staios, on 20 September 
2016 and his report dated 30 September 2016, was tendered in evidence 
before me as Exhibit 2.  Mr Power had also tendered an outline of the defence 
submissions which were dated 16 February 2017 and they were Exhibit 1.
9	Reference was made during the plea to a number of matters contained in  
Mr Staios' report and I am prepared to accept these as factually accurate.  It is 
appropriate to briefly summarise the matters which I regard as relevant to the 
disposition of your case.  You were born with prelingual deafness and as a 
result of you were delayed in language and speech.  You were otherwise 
physically healthy and completed education to Year 12 at a school for deaf 
children in Kew.  You did not acquire any formal education around the use of 
sign language and you went on to complete an apprenticeship in floor 
covering and finishing.  You performed work of that nature for a period of five 
years post-apprenticeship and then an eight-year period working as a plastics 
trimmer and cutter.  You have otherwise not been employed for approximately 
20 years and you have been in receipt of a disability pension.  There is no 
history recorded of any drug or alcohol problems.
10	You have been diagnosed as suffering from an “Unspecified Communication 
Disorder” by Mr Staios.  His report indicates that you are currently at moderate 
risk of recidivism or reoffending due to the following risk factors:
*	reduced verbal communication; 
*	underdeveloped social communication skills, 
*	maladaptive coping mechanisms, 
*	poor emotion regulation, 
*	poor insight into the triggers associated with the current offending.
11	Mr Staios further opines that you had misinterpreted and romanticised your 
initial encounters with the victim and that you were in a highly emotional and 
vulnerable state as a result of once again being rejected, leading you to 
ruminate for several hours without anybody to turn to during this period of 
crisis.
12	I accept that in relation to the offending the matters referred to by Mr Staios 
have to some degree reduced your moral culpability.  I also accept as put on 
your behalf the opinion that it is highly likely that a sentence of imprisonment 
will expose you further to particular hardship, and I note Mr Staios' comment, 
"It is highly likely that Mr Bowden will experience deterioration in his mental 
health and fall prey to dominant antisocial peers".
13	Mr Staios further expressed the view that a community-based disposition has 
the potential to reduce your risk of recidivism and provide benefits in terms of 
gains made via psychotherapy and to apply newly learned coping skills to 
your naturalistic environment without interruption.  Such an order would also 
permit you to remain connected to existing social network services in the 
community and your family.
14	The submission advanced on your behalf is that a community correction order 
would be an appropriate sentence as opposed to an immediate term of 
imprisonment.  I was referred to a case of Boulton v R,  especially paragraphs 
104-108 in relation to the sentencing options available as an alternative to 
imprisonment.  I was also referred to comments made in that case in relation 
to the sentencing principles of general and specific deterrence in 
circumstances where a community correction order was imposed as an 
alternative to a term of imprisonment.
15	Notwithstanding the punitive aspects of the community corrections order, I am 
of the view that the nature of the offending in your case can only be suitably 
addressed by a sentence which includes some period of imprisonment.  I 
have taken into account comments made by the Court of Appeal in Hogarth v 
R .  I have specifically taken into account comments made in that case 
relevant to the current sentencing practices for aggravated burglary.  I have 
considered the sentencing guidelines that are set out in paragraph 5(1) of the 
Sentencing Act 1991. 
16	Apart from aspects of general and specific deterrence, I believe it is highly 
relevant in your case to show the court's denunciation of the type of conduct in 
which you engaged by the offending, but also to establish conditions which 
assist in the facilitation of your rehabilitation.  I must also ensure that the 
community is protected from further offending of this nature.  This was one of 
the matters specifically addressed in the victim impact statement tendered 
before me.
17	You have been assessed as suitable for a community corrections order and I 
am prepared to consider such a disposition, particularly because of your 
profound lifelong deafness and your difficulty in communication.  I accept that 
this condition would necessarily make a period of imprisonment more onerous 
for you than would otherwise be the case.
18	You can stand up please, Mr Bowden.  In the circumstances of your case, I 
propose to convicted you of the offence of aggravated burglary and sentence 
you to a term of imprisonment of 18 months.  I fix no minimum period so you 
will be required to serve 18 months.  Immediately following your release, I 
sentence you to a community corrections order for a period of a further 24 
months with a condition that you perform 200 hours of unpaid community work 
and that you receive appropriate mental health assessment and treatment as 
may be required during the period of that order, and those conditions are in 
addition to the core conditions attaching to a community corrections order 
which you have agreed to in the course of your assessment and which I am 
told by Mr Power you agree to today.  
19	Mr Bowden, a further condition of the community corrections order is that you 
must not enter or remain in 12 Howard Road, Dingley Village, for a period of 
two years.  That is the period of the community corrections order.  
20	But for your plea of guilty and the operation of s.6AAA of the Sentencing Act 
1991, I would have sentenced you to five years' imprisonment with a three-
year minimum term.
21	I also propose to make orders pursuant to s.464ZF of the Crimes Act 1958 in 
relation to the taking of a forensic sample and a further order for the forfeiture 
of the kitchen knife and the hammer in accordance with s.79(2) of the 
Confiscation Act 1991.  That is the sentence that I impose upon you,  
Mr Bowden.
22	I am going to have my associate provide you with that community corrections 
order for your signature.  I am going to make the other orders now in relation 
to the taking of the forensic sample and the forfeiture of the knife and the 
hammer.
23	(Order signed and acknowledged.)
24	Mr Bowden, I have signed those orders and I have asked my associate to 
make a notation on the sentence record to Corrections personnel that you 
suffer from deafness, so that they are aware of that immediately when you are 
placed into custody.  We have got the orders now so if you would go with the 
Corrections officer now please, Mr Bowden.
25	Thank you very much for your assistance, Mr Power, I appreciate it, your 
getting instructions from Mr Bowden and I am grateful for your assistance.
26	MR POWER:  As Your Honour pleases.
27	HIS HONOUR:  And to you too, Ms Holmes.
28	MS HOLMES:  Thank you, Your Honour.
---
  [2014] VSCA 342
  [2012] VSCA 302
 
 
 
 

VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT REPORTING SERVICE
7/436 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne Vic 3000 - Telephone 9603 9134
189933

.IMA:AFC	1	SENTENCE
		DPP v BOWDEN
