IN THE COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
Revised
Not Restricted
Suitable for Publication
AT MELBOURNE
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

CR-15-01923


DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS



v



THEODORE SKONIS



---


JUDGE:
HER HONOUR JUDGE LAWSON
WHERE HELD:
Melbourne
DATE OF HEARING:
22 February 2016
DATE OF SENTENCE:
22 February 2016
CASE MAY BE CITED AS:
DPP v Skonis
MEDIUM NEUTRAL CITATION:
[2016] VCC 139

REASONS FOR SENTENCE
---
Subject: Criminal Law – Sentencing – Aggravated Burglary and Intentionally Causing Injury.
---

APPEARANCES:

Counsel
Solicitors
For the Director of Public 
Prosecutions
Ms J. Malobabic
John Cain, Solicitor for 
Public Prosecutions



For the Accused
Mr P. McClure
Balmer and Associates






HER HONOUR:  
1	Theodore Skonis, you have pleaded guilty before me on two charges, one 
charge of aggravated burglary and one charge of intentionally causing injury.
2	The offending occurred on 16 June 2015 when you entered Unit 2, 60 Fox 
Street, St Albans and assaulted Mr Warren.  
3	The offending is serious and that is reflected in the maximum penalty that is 
prescribed by law.  Aggravated burglary is a level 2 imprisonment charge 
which has a 25 year maximum and intentionally cause injury is a level 5 
imprisonment charge, so that is ten years maximum.
4	You have also admitted before me your prior criminal history.  There are two 
court appearances; they relate to driving-related offending.  Of significance it 
is the case that there are no prior convictions recorded for crimes of violence.
5	A second matter that is of significance having regard to your prior criminal 
history is that it demonstrates that you can adhere to court orders and I noted 
that you have successfully completed a Community Correction Order of six 
months in the past and also you adhered to the terms of a suspended term of 
imprisonment that was imposed in the past.  
6	I will now sentence you on the basis of the Crown opening that was read to 
the court and exhibited.  I will not be repeating in detail the circumstances of 
your offending; suffice to say that there was a context to this offending.  I 
noted that you were 29 at the time, you are now 30.  The victim Mr Warran 
was aged 33.  He was known to you, as he had previously been in a 
relationship with Violetta Dibra, who is your fiancée's sister.  
7	Violetta alleged that Mr Warran had argued and assaulted her on the night 
previous.  You had been told that by your fiancée and you had confirmed that 
by speaking with Violetta.  You then took it upon yourself to go and confront 
the victim.  You knocked on the door of his unit and he opened it.  The 
flyscreen door was locked.  You grabbed at the flyscreen door and attempted 
to break it.  Mr Warren then opened the flyscreen door and you walked into 
his house and immediately started to hit him.  
8	He raised his arms to protect his face and suffered defensive wounds.  He 
suffered bruising, swelling and abrasions on the right forearm and elbow, 
swollen right-little finger and a fracture to the left arm with some bruising and 
swelling to the lower-left leg.  
9	Mr Warren was treated for his injuries.  He has suffered greatly, as set out 
very extensively in the Victim Impact Statement that was read to the court.
10	I noted that you were arrested and charged on 16 June 2015.  The matter was 
then settled at committal mention on 4 November 2015.   
11	When you were arrested you were fully cooperative with the police and you 
made full and frank admissions.
12	Mr Skonis, this offending is serious.  You inappropriately took matters into 
your own hands.  As I stated earlier when I was discussing the matter with 
counsel, I do not view this as being the most serious example of this very 
serious offence of aggravated burglary, nonetheless it was wrong for you to 
have gone around to the unit and entered the premises and assaulted the 
victim irrespective of your motivation.  People are entitled to feel safe and 
secure in their own homes and you should have left Mr Warran's punishment 
to the police and courts.  I note he is to be charged with respect to the earlier 
incident.  Charges have been approved being one unlawful assault charge 
and one criminal damage charge.
13	In mitigation, there are a combination of factors that I have taken into account 
on your behalf.  Firstly, the early plea of guilty was entered at the earliest 
opportunity.  You spared Mr Warran, the victim, the further trauma of having to 
come to court and give evidence on your trial and you saved the state the 
expense and inconvenience of a trial.  There is real utility in your plea.  I 
accept that you have facilitated justice and your sentence is to be discounted 
accordingly.
14	Secondly, I am satisfied that the plea is indicative of genuine remorse.  That is 
reflected in the submissions made by Mr McClure.  I am satisfied you now 
have insight into your offending behaviour.  You reacted angrily because of 
your upset concerning how the victim treated Violetta, but you now 
acknowledge and accept that you overstepped the mark.  
15	I have read all the references that I have received today:  the references are 
from your fiancée, Seb Dibra; your friend Belinda Talevkski; Minna Mattiussi; 
Sabina Djelosevic; and Emina Ismakic.  
16	Each of those referees have set out in their comprehensive references that 
they have known you for some time and they consider you a person of moral 
character.  You have admitted to them that you have made a mistake and you 
are incredibly remorseful and you are now willing to do whatever it takes to 
make reparation financially and emotionally.  It is said that you have learnt a 
lot from what happened and that this mistake will not be made again.
17	That sentiment is reflected in each of the character references and I accept 
that evidence.  I am satisfied that each of those people consider you to be a 
person of good character and attest to your qualities.  I am satisfied overall 
that this was a one-off situation and it is unlikely that you will re-offend in this 
nature again.
18	Having regard to your full cooperation with the police, your fulsome 
admissions, your early plea of guilty, your positive response to the offending 
and the insight that you are now showing, I conclude that your rehabilitation 
prospects are excellent and the likelihood of re-offending is low.  The fact that 
you did undertake these steps to punish the victim suggests to me that you do 
need to consider further anger management and that can be addressed by the 
programs or program that I have recommended that you undertake as part of 
your Community Correction Order.
19	I noted you had no history of drug, alcohol or mental health problems, so that 
is the reason why the only program that I have suggested for offender 
behaviour is anger management.  
20	I noted the very strong support you have from your fiancée, your parents and 
other friends, all of whom attended the plea hearing.  
21	Overall I have concluded the most appropriate sentence to punish you is a 
Community Correction Order and not an immediate term of imprisonment to 
be served, as sought by the Crown.  
22	As the Court of Appeal explained in Boulton , the availability of Community 
Correction Orders has “dramatically changed the sentencing landscape”.   
Sentencing courts can now choose a sentencing disposition which enables all 
the purposes of punishment to be served simultaneously in a coherent and 
balanced way in preference to an option, imprisonment, which is skewed 
towards retribution and deterrence.  It has been described as a radical 
sentencing option, with the potential to transform sentencing in the State of 
Victoria. 
23	A Community Correction Order can be punitive, achieve deterrence and may 
be suitable even in cases of relatively serious offences which might previously 
have attracted a medium term of imprisonment such as the charge that you 
face of aggravated burglary.   
24	I noted that you are currently working full time and you have had an excellent 
work history since leaving school at age 15.  You are living with your parents 
currently and plan to marry in the future and have children.  
25	Your counsel acknowledged general and specific deterrence needs to be 
emphasised in a case like this and it is further necessary for the court, on 
behalf of the community, to condemn your behaviour.  
26	In sentencing you I must impose just punishment and have regard to all the 
relevant sentencing principles.  
27	If you would like to stand now, Mr Skonis, I will just announce the formal court 
orders.  In respect to the two charges on the indictment an aggregate 
sentence will be imposed because it represents one course of conduct over a 
short period of time on the date set out on the indictment.  
28	In respect to Charges 1 and 2 on the indictment you will be convicted and a 
Community Correction Order will be imposed for two years' duration 
commencing today, 22 February 2016 and ending on 21 February 2018.  
29	In addition to the mandatory terms that apply to all Community Correction 
Orders that I have set out for you, the additional special conditions will be that 
you must perform 150 hours of unpaid community work over two years as 
directed; you must be under supervision of a Community Correction Officer for 
two years; and, finally, you must participate in programs addressing your 
offending behaviour as directed by the regional manager.  I have asked for 
anger management programs.
30	I make the following declaration pursuant to s.6AAA:  but for your plea of 
guilty I would have convicted and sentenced you to 12 months' imprisonment 
to follow a three-year Community Correction Order.  
31	I make the order sought in respect to s.464ZF. Having considered the 
seriousness of the circumstances of the offending, I am satisfied in all the 
circumstances the order is justified and I have noted the order is by consent.  I 
consider the granting of the order is in the public interest.
32	These are the formal orders.  I will just sign these.  Have we prepared the 
orders so that that can be signed?  Take a seat and we will print out the order.  
I will sign it and then I will get you to go through it with Mr McClure and get 
you to sign it.  
33	There is just one final thing, Mr Skonis.  With the order for the taking of a 
forensic sample, what that will entail is you going to the Sunshine police.  
They will give you a little cotton bud to place in your mouth and I have got to 
tell you that if you do not consent to the taking of the mouth scraping under 
supervision by an authorised member of the police then a sample can be 
taken by blood sample and the police may use reasonable force to enable that 
procedure.  Do you understand that?
34	OFFENDER:  Yes, Your Honour.
35	HER HONOUR:  Provided you cooperate with them, it should not be any fuss.  
I will give you those.  I understand an appointment has been made for you to 
attend the Sunshine Community Corrections Service and that is on Tuesday 
23 February 2016 at 2 pm.
36	OFFENDER:  The lady was saying something about going to a later time 
because of work and that.
37	HER HONOUR:  Well, that was the date that they have scheduled you, so 
there is difficulty about that.  You can sort that out with your counsel, but it is 
certainly the case in my report it says the first appointment has been 
scheduled for Tuesday 23 February 2016 at 2 pm.  You have two clear 
working days, so by 4 pm on 24 February 2016 you have to attend 
10 Foundry Road, Sunshine.  But sort that out before you leave court so that 
that is not an issue.
38	I will just sign the other copy and then he can have one.  I think that covers 
everything, does it not?
39	MS MALOBABIC:  Yes, Your Honour.
40	MR McCLURE:  Yes, Your Honour.  
41	HER HONOUR:  Mr McClure, what was the problem with the appointment that 
was organised?
42	MR McCLURE:  It has been made for 2 o'clock; my understanding is that Mr 
Skonis was told by Mr Johansen to contact Corrections and see if a later time 
could be obtained.
43	HER HONOUR:  They could do a later time?
44	MR McCLURE:  Yes.
45	HER HONOUR:  As long as he knows that and he can do that within the time 
frame.
46	MR McCLURE:  Yes, and he is clear about being two days, so thank you.
47	HER HONOUR:  That is good.  All right, well, thank you very much.
48	MR McCLURE:  As Your Honour pleases.
49	HER HONOUR:  We can adjourn.
- - -
  Boulton v The Queen [2014] VSCA 342.
  Ibid, at 113.
  Ibid, at [4].
  Ibid, at [131].
 
 
 
 

VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT REPORTING SERVICE
7/436 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne Vic 3000 - Telephone 9603 9134
181949

	1	SENTENCE
		DPP v Skonis
