IN THE COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
Revised
Not Restricted
Suitable for Publication
AT MELBOURNE
CRIMINAL JURISDICTION

CR 16-00306


DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS



v



HOWARD BUX



---


JUDGE:
HER HONOUR JUDGE CANNON
WHERE HELD:
Melbourne
DATE OF HEARING:
13 May 20216
DATE OF SENTENCE:
23 May 2016
CASE MAY BE CITED AS:
DPP v Bux
MEDIUM NEUTRAL CITATION:
[2016] VCC 689

REASONS FOR SENTENCE
---
Subject:		CRIMINAL LAW
Catchwords: 		Sentence - Pleas of guilty – Aggravated burglary – False imprisonment 
– Robbery – Recklessly causing injury – Damaging property – 
Summary offence of commit indictable offence whilst on bail – Relevant 
criminal record -  Elderley, frail, disabled and vulnerable victim – Soft 
target -  Affected by alcohol and ice at time of offending – Degree of 
deliberation in offending – History of alcohol and drug use - Remorse
Sentence:		Convicted and sentenced to Total Effective Sentence 9 years and 1 
month’s imprisonment with non-parole period of 6 years and 6 months’ 
imprisonment – s.6AAA Sentencing Act 1991 declaration – Pre-
sentence detention 280 days – Ancillary order Disposal order
---

APPEARANCES:

Counsel
Solicitors
For the Director of Public 
Prosecutions
Mr J. Manning (Plea)
Ms C. Picone (Sentence)
Office of Public 
Prosecutions



For the Accused
Mr M. Page (Plea)
Mr P. Skehan (Sentence)
Patrick Dwyer





HER HONOUR:
1	Howard Donald Bux, you have pleaded guilty to the following offences:  
aggravated burglary; false Imprisonment; robbery; recklessly causing injury; 
damaging property; and the summary offence of committing an indictable 
offence whilst on bail. 
2	The maximum penalties are as follows:  aggravated burglary: 25 years’ 
imprisonment; recklessly causing Injury: five years’ imprisonment; false 
imprisonment; and Damaging property: ten years’ imprisonment; robbery: 
15 years’ imprisonment; committing an indictable offence whilst on bail, which 
is a summary offence, has a maximum penalty of three months' imprisonment.
3	The maximum penalties reflect the seriousness with which Parliament regards 
these offences.
4	Your offending was opened as follows:
5	I was told that you were 49 at the time of the offending and you have, on my 
calculation, just turned 50.
6	The victim, Robert Arthur Smith, was 70 at the time you committed the 
offences. He was born with an intellectual disability and has difficulty 
communicating verbally.  He also suffers from osteoporosis, walks with the 
support of a walking-frame and is legally blind.  He receives daily carer 
support.
7	Mr Smith moved to his unit in Reservoir eight years ago and was able to live 
there with the daily assistance of Yooralla Disability Services. 
8	You and Mr Smith did not know each other.
9	At the time that you committed the offences you were on bail, which gives rise 
to the summary offence.
10	On Sunday, 9 August 2015, the victim was alone at his home when, at 2.30 
am, he heard a knock at the front door.  He opened it and saw you through 
the screen of the locked security door.  You asked him for a cigarette and Mr 
Smith said, "No", then shut the door.
11	At about 3.30 am, with the use of his walker, Mr Smith unlocked the back door 
to have a cigarette outside.  As he opened the door, you grabbed him and 
dragged him to his bedroom.  This conduct gives rise to Charge 1, aggravated 
burglary.
12	You then struck the victim to the face multiple times, causing extensive 
bruising to the face, head and neck.  Later examination also showed signs of 
blunt trauma to multiple sites on the head, face, ears, and upper limbs- this 
attack upon the victim gives rise to Charge 2; recklessly causing injury.
13	After assaulting the victim you tied his legs together and tied his hands to the 
bed.  You blindfolded and gagged him.  At times, the victim could not see at 
all.  This conduct gives rise to Charge 3, false imprisonment.
14	You then took a suitcase and filled it with Mr Smith’s belongings.  You took 
three World War II medals, a bank book, personal identification cards, two 
mobile phones, a clock, a watch, items of clothing and food, as well as coins 
and cash. These thefts in the preceding circumstances give rise to Charge 4, 
robbery. However, in sentencing you I am mindful that I must not double count 
the violence or false imprisonment in sentencing you for robbery.
15	Before leaving the premises, you damaged the landline, so as to ensure that 
Mr Smith could not raise any alarm. (charge 5 Damaging property)
16	After you left, the victim managed to free his hands and remove the blindfold. 
He untied himself and saw that his home was in a state of mess, evidently 
from you ransacking it.  Mr Smith felt helpless without a phone and stayed in 
the lounge room until the morning. He urinated in his pants.  Mr Smith’s carer 
arrived at the house later in the morning and upon finding Mr Smith, he called 
emergency services.
17	When police arrived, they observed the victim’s eyes to be extremely swollen 
and bruised, with dried blood around his mouth.  It was evident to them that 
he had a disability and was quite frail, requiring a walking frame to move out 
of his unit.  He was treated by paramedics at the scene then taken to hospital, 
where the full extent of his injuries, to which I have previously referred, were 
noted.  I have viewed photographs of those injuries also and they are sick 
making.
18	Subsequently, Mr Smith was moved to alternative accommodation. 
19	On 11 August, the victim and his sister, Gail Burge, took part in a Victoria 
Police media conference.
20	On 14 August 2015, you attended a police station in response to police 
visiting a relative’s property, looking for you.  You had a conversation with 
police and you said the following things:
*	that you were with Donna Bux at her unit in Preston on the night of the 
offences;
*	that you were not on the run and could be contacted through Aboriginal 
Health Service;
*	that you wanted to do the right thing;
*	you said you did not want to go to gaol; you had not been inside for 
17 years and would be suicidal.
*	Subsequently, you said, "I’ll cut you a deal".  When asked further about 
this, you did not reply.
21	An appointment was made for you to return and speak with the police 
informant. As you shook the hand of a police officer, you pulled him close to 
you and whispered. “Tell them to stop looking".
22	On 17 August you re-attended the police station with a support person.  You 
said that you knew the incident that they were referring to and that they could 
"stop looking".  You were arrested and cautioned then took part in a record of 
interview and made admissions:
23	You said, "I’ll spill my guts ‘cause I’m guilty for what I’ve done to that poor old 
man, Rob".  You said that it was late Saturday night and that you were 
wandering the street looking to deal; that you were thinking about cash and 
walked past a window where the light was on and the blind was up.  You said 
you saw an old man smoking a cigarette and you knocked on the door to ask 
for a cigarette.  You said, "But at the same time, at the back of my mind, I was 
thinking about robbing…So I thought, 'these old fellas, they keep a lot of cash, 
you know, in their - under their mattresses…'"
24	You said that the victim refused you a cigarette and closed the door; that you 
were about to walk off and, to quote you, "It was like something clicked and 
make me walk straight back around the back…jumped the fence…Then I 
stand there watching through the kitchen window, …  It was just like fucking 
old man, you’re going to open the back door', and he did.  He opened the 
back sliding door, I just walked around and said, 'I need to talk to you, old 
man, come in here’, you know, and I said, ‘Look I don’t want to hurt ya, just 
gimme the cash and I’ll go…’"
25	You said that you walked the victim into the room and laid him on the bed. 
You said that you told him to tell you where the money was and you would not 
hurt him.  You said that you had no intention of hurting the victim.
26	You said that as you were leaning over the victim, the victim started swinging 
punches at you and that you then retaliated.  You said, "I fucking ended up 
punching him twice I think…I punched him either fucking side of the head or 
face".  You said that you put a towel on top of his eyes so he would not look at 
you, and spent two hours taking his belongings.
27	You also said that you leant over the victim, asking him where the money was 
and that the victim tried to hit you, so you, "cracked him again a couple of 
times".  You said that this time you were "sort of wild".
28	You said that after you collected the victim’s belongings, you left, but that you 
tied up the victim to give yourself a head start.  You said, "As soon as I left 
there I fucking knew I done the wrong thing, mate, I tell you. I felt bad. I knew I 
was going to get caught for this…I deserve to anyway".  You said that you still 
had the victim’s medals, bank book and key cards and wanted to give them 
back to him.  You told police where these items were buried, and said, "I 
deserve whatever I get…it’s not about me, I know that, it’s about Rob.  He’s 
the one that’s suffering, not me".
29	The interview was suspended and you helped police find the medals and bank 
items, which you had placed in a drawstring bag and buried at an address in 
Reservoir.
30	The  record of interview was resumed and you said that you wanted to pay the 
victim back all the money you had taken, which you estimated was $300 in 
gold coins and $150 in notes. You had spent the money gambling, and had 
exchanged some of the victim’s belongings for drugs.
31	You said that you kept the medals because you were told by people that you 
would be brought undone by selling them.  You said that you thought that the 
best thing to do was to bury them and at the same time, you did not want to 
get rid of them because you could give them back if you got caught.  You said 
that you were going to try to work out how to get the $4000 balance out of the 
victim’s bank account but you did not because you were too frightened.  You 
said that you snapped the landline so the victim could not call anyone.
32	You also said that you were ashamed of yourself, that you did not feel good 
and felt like killing yourself.  You apologised to the victim’s family, as indeed 
you did on the day of the plea hearing before me.
33	Where there is a divergence of accounts between yours, Mr Bux, and 
Mr Smith’s I sentence you on the basis of Mr Smith’s account, which was 
accepted as an appropriate way to proceed by your Counsel. 
34	Mr Bux, as you well know, your offending is most serious and is deserving of 
strong punishment and denunciation.  Also, strong weight must be given to 
general deterrence.  A message must be sent to the community in no 
uncertain terms that conduct such as yours is utterly intolerable, in a bid to 
deter others from behaving as you have.  You targeted a most vulnerable 
victim in the dead of night in the sanctity of his own home where he was 
entitled to feel safe.  While the full extent of the victim’s disabilities may not 
have been apparent to you at that time, it must have been obvious that the 
victim was elderly, frail and had compromised mobility.  You had it in mind to 
rob Mr Smith from an early stage when you saw him through the window and 
you surveilled him for a good while before pouncing on him as soon as he 
opened his back door.  In leaving him tied up and without his phones and 
landline, you deprived him of any ability to raise alarm.
35	By way of some explanation for your offending, I was told by your Counsel 
that you were affected by alcohol and ice when you committed the offences, 
that you were in need of money to buy more ice.  This heightens the 
dangerousness of your offending, but I have not treated this aspect as 
aggravating your offending.
36	I make the observation that you were not so affected by any substance or in 
need of such substances, that you did not act with a good degree of 
deliberation and calculation on this occasion.  You did what you could to 
ensure that the victim could not raise alarm and you tried to cover his eyes to 
avoid being identified.  Your thought processes in targeting the victim were 
also somewhat calculating and rather chilling.  However, I do not sentence 
you on the basis that there was much in the way of pre-planning involved in 
your offending.  The only aspect of this were the steps that you took once you 
had seen the victim though the window the first time on that night.
37	I take into account the impact on the victim and his sister, which has been 
devastating.  The police informant wrote down remarks made by Robert 
Smith, who said that he felt shock and he described how he managed to untie 
himself, which took him about ten minutes.  He said that he was scared to get 
help and at the hospital he was scared to be by himself.  He said that it felt 
strange to have moved to the new care facility and that he missed his 
neighbours from his ‘old house'.  He missed going into the garden and it was 
harder to go outside at the new place.  He said that he missed some of his 
personal belongings, such as his watch, although most of the things had been 
replaced.  He said that he felt unhappy after the incident but felt a bit better 
when the police process finished and the medals were returned. 
38	In her victim impact statement Gail Burge spoke of her distress at receiving a 
call about what had befallen her brother.  She spoke of her and her brother’s 
immense distress when she attended the hospital.  She said that her brother 
was scared and thought he was going to be killed.  She said that his one 
bedroom unit was his prized possession and spoke of the very long and 
difficult road the victim had travelled in order to have become independent.  
She spoke of her anguish at seeing her brother in such an injured state and of 
seeing how you had trashed his unit.  She felt very angry about you leaving 
the victim tied up and without any means of calling for help.  She said that her 
brother had been very particular about his belongings and knowing where 
they all were, and that your actions in taking or disturbing a good deal of these 
had caused him significant stress.  She said that the loss of their father’s 
medals had caused a great deal of anguish until they were returned.  She said 
that after the incident, her brother was too scared to live alone and was calling 
her at least ten times a day.  She said that some four months after the 
offending, her brother was still becoming emotional if anyone spoke to him 
about what you had done.  Eventually, he was forced to move to aged care 
accommodation, giving up his cherished independence and freedom.  Ms 
Burge said that Rob had been institutionalised since he was 16 years old and 
that life in these institutions had been terrible.  She spoke of his move to live 
independently with the assistance of Yooralla, and that he was so proud of 
what he had accomplished in achieving independence. 
39	She said that she had to come to Melbourne from her home in Queensland on 
two occasions after the offending to help her brother with moving and to 
reassure him.  She said that dealing with Rob and her emotions of anger and 
disillusion and disgust over the incident had been very distressing. 
40	Ms Burge also detailed the financial impacts on Rob and on her which related 
to his respite care, her flights to Melbourne to assist him and her 
accommodation.  She said that four months on her brother still called her and 
asked her where various of his belongings were, and that she was called on to 
sort out things long distance when simple things like Rob wanting to go 
outside caused an issue at the aged care facility.  Ms Burge said, "I feel very 
sad knowing that Rob will have to live in aged care for the rest of his life and 
that this incident has cost him most of his independence".
41	Mr Bux, these are the very real and profound impacts that your offending has 
had on the victim and his sister. 
42	I take into account your criminal history which is extensive and has a good 
deal of relevance.
*	You have been dealt with for burglary and criminal damage in October 
1985 by way of a three month attendance order.
*	In May 1986 you were dealt with for attempted armed robbery and two 
charges of assault occasioning actual bodily harm and you were 
sentenced to a total effective sentence of two years’ imprisonment.
*	In March 1988 you were sentenced to a total effective sentence of six 
months’ imprisonment for burglary, theft and theft of a motor vehicle. 
*	In April 1988 you were sentenced to a total effective sentence of two 
months’ imprisonment for burglary and theft.
*	In May 1991 you were fined $300 for assaulting police.
*	In November 1994 you were sentenced to a total effective sentence of 
12 months’ imprisonment, which was suspended for two years as well as 
an alcohol treatment condition for intentionally or recklessly causing 
injury, child stealing, arson, assault police, intentionally or recklessly 
causing injury, two charges of theft and one charge of assault police on 
duty.
*	On 5 March 1996 you were sentenced to a total effective sentence of 
eight months’ imprisonment which was suspended for 12 months for two 
charges of robbery, and on 7 April 1997 you were dealt with for two 
charges of resist police, possess regulated weapon and being drunk in a 
public place, for which you received fines.
*	On 26 February 1998 you were sentenced to 12 months’ imprisonment 
suspended for 14 months for attempted armed robbery, burglary and two 
charges of theft. 
*	On 6 April 1998 you were sentenced to a total effective sentence of 
seven days’ imprisonment suspended for 24 months for resist police, 
drunk in a public place, theft from a shop and drive whilst disqualified.
*	On 16 April 2012 you were fined for a theft, and on 17 May 2013 you 
received a ‘"with conviction" conditional undertaking for one year for 
assault with a weapon, assault police and resist police. The condition of 
the undertaking was that you were to abstain from alcohol.
43	In addition to being relevant in a number of respects to the offences before 
me, your criminal history also reveals that you received the benefit of a 
number of suspended sentences in the past and you also received the benefit 
of a requirement to have issues associated with alcohol addressed by virtue of 
the order made by His Honour Judge Hart in his sentence in 1994.
44	As your Counsel pointed out, it is also evident that there is a gap of, on my 
calculation, about 14 years from 1998 when you did not commit offences, and 
as he revealed, you became a pillar of society. 
45	You are an indigenous man who grew up on the Cumeragunja Mission on the 
Murray. When you were eight, your family moved to Shepparton.  Sadly, your 
parents were both alcoholics and you were subjected to physical and sexual 
abuse.  Violence was a way of life in your family household which no doubt 
impacted on you significantly.  You told Dr Turnbull, consultant psychiatrist, 
that from the age of 13 you were very angry and started to abuse alcohol and 
drugs.  This played itself out in your criminal history, seeing you commit your 
first serious offence at age 18.  You attended school until you were in Year 10.  
You played football and undertook a plumbing apprenticeship for two years.
46	From age 18 until about age 30, you were in and out of gaol, with the last 
incarceration being in 1991.  As I have said, you then received the benefit of a 
number of suspended sentences, one which was accompanied by an order for 
treatment for alcohol abuse.
47	You have two daughters from a previous relationship.  That relationship lasted 
about 13 years and you have a son from your current relationship. 
48	 In 1997 or 1998, you attended the Percy Green Memorial Recovery Centre 
and found sobriety and religious faith.  You also met Cynthia, who was a case 
worker there, and she assisted you greatly in your rehabilitation. You 
commenced a relationship and had a son, who is now 18 years old, and 
whom I understand is doing his VCE.  You were employed at the centre for 
three years and you became a parishioner at the Assembly of God Church in 
Shepparton.  You moved up the ranks of that church, starting as a deacon, 
then you became an elder and then a pastor. You saw yourself as an example 
to other people in your community and you offered them support and spiritual 
guidance, using your own life experiences to assist them. 
49	However, in 2010 you started to feel burnt out by the work that you were 
doing. According to the psychiatric report there were also allegations against 
you of abuse but these were never taken to court.  Also in that year your 
father died and you felt anger toward him for his poor treatment of you and for 
your sense of wasted opportunities.  These matters placed an immense strain 
on you, to a point where your mood significantly deteriorated and you turned 
to marijuana and alcohol.  You took it on yourself to step down from your 
position as you felt that this was necessary in order to maintain the church’s 
standards.  Your marijuana and alcohol use dramatically increased and you 
then began using ice, which soon became a daily habit.
50	In 2011/2012 you moved to Derby in a bid to get away from Shepparton and 
from drugs.  In Derby you took on a role in your church, albeit that this was a 
lesser role than that which you held in Shepparton.  According to your 
counsel, you and your wife moved to Melbourne and lived in a bus in a 
driveway at your aunt’s house in October 2013.  You then moved between the 
homes of various members of your extended family.  You often wandered the 
streets and you separated from your wife, although you kept in contact with.  
The dates which you have given your Counsel in respect of some of these 
events are different to those that you apparently told Dr Turnbull.
51	I was told that during this period you tried to address your drug and alcohol 
issues.  In the psychiatric report, it says that you took such steps between 
2011 and 2015.  I have received documentation from the Victorian Aboriginal 
Health Service Co-Operative Ltd dated 12 May this year, which says that you 
had been a client of its Preston branch since June 2014.  I accept that you 
have made some efforts to address your substance abuse issues before you 
committed the offences before me.  Unfortunately, you were unsuccessful, 
although I factor in that you were successful in this regard for a number of 
years from 1998. 
52	In the 18 months leading to the offences before me, you had returned to 
alcohol and drug abuse, which resulted in you returning to offending, including 
violent offending.  I understand that your wife was unable to cope with you, 
which was when you and she separated.
53	However, as I understand the situation, you have now each committed to your 
relationship and she was present at the plea hearing in support of you and I 
understand she is here again today.
54	I have taken into account these matters when assessing your prospects of 
rehabilitation. On the one hand, you have shown that you can abstain from 
substance abuse for a substantial period.  On the other hand, you returned to 
substance abuse and to offending when you were placed under strain.  The 
prosecution did not submit that you were aware that a return to substance 
abuse would dispose you to further offending, so that your offending before 
me is not aggravated in that way.  However, Mr Bux, I place you on notice that 
there is a definite link between your drug and alcohol abuse and your 
offending, if you did not know that by now.  If you decide to abuse drugs or 
alcohol in future and commit offences, then your decision to abuse such 
substances may well be treated as an aggravating feature of any further 
offending.  Do you understand that?
55	ACCUSED:  Yes, Your Honour.
56	HER HONOUR:  In your favour, I take into account your early plea of guilty, 
which the law says entitles you to a significant discount in the sentence you 
would otherwise receive.  In pleading guilty at such an early stage you have 
spared the witnesses, especially the victim, the time and trauma of giving 
evidence and you have saved the community the time and expense of 
contested proceedings.  Over and above this, you co-operated with the police 
from a fairly early stage, showing them where some of the victim’s belongings 
were hidden and making a number of admissions in your record of interview.
57	I accept that you have some heartfelt remorse for what you have done in view 
of the letter from the Victorian Aboriginal Health Service and other matters to 
which I have referred, including your apologies, but there were aspects in your 
record of interview which smacked of being self- serving in nature, and which 
gave a skewed account of how you came to assault the victim.  Also, you 
have said through your Counsel, that you returned to the scene on the night in 
question to check that the victim was alright.  I have some difficulty in 
accepting this in view of the fact that you did what you could to avoid being 
detected, including breaking the landline at his home.  Also, you did not say 
that this is what you had done in your record of interview; rather, you said that 
you tied the victim up so you could get a head start in fleeing.  It makes no 
sense that you then returned to the scene. However, even if you did do this, 
you did not assist the victim in any way.  Therefore, on any view of it, I do not 
regard this aspect of your plea as mitigatory.
58	I take into account the report of Dr Turnbull in a general sense.  There is 
nothing in it which reduces your moral culpability or impacts on any of the 
sentencing principles insofar as any impairment of mental function is 
concerned.  I regard your moral culpability as high.
59	You have returned to religion now and have found comfort and some insight in 
this.  Your Counsel pointed to the impact that your faith had upon you in 1998, 
leading to a significant period of being offence free.  That is true.  However, I 
must also have regard to the fact that you returned to substance abuse and 
offending notwithstanding your previous religious enlightenment. 
60	As at the plea hearing, you had been in protective custody for 270 days and it 
is likely that you will have to serve your sentence in protective custody 
because of what you have done and its media coverage.  I factor in that time 
has been, and will be, harsher for you than for someone who is not subjected 
to these harsher conditions in custody. 
61	Whilst on remand, you have been running a prayer service once a week for 
those in protective custody, which is to your credit.
62	In sentencing you for the aggravated burglary, I am mindful of the fact that this 
offence’s end point was when you dragged the victim over the threshold of his 
doorway.  Also, I am mindful of the fact that you did not have a weapon with 
you and that you committed the offence with the intention to steal.  However, 
all that being said, I regard your offending overall as most serious.
63	In view of your offending on this occasion, your substance abuse issues, and 
your criminal history, but also your acceptance of responsibility, your remorse, 
your wife’s support, your ability to abstain from substance abuse for a lengthy 
period, and your return to your religious faith, I rate your prospects of 
rehabilitation as guardedly fair at best. I must place solid weight on specific 
deterrence and the need to protect the community.  Your Counsel submitted 
that I ought impose a sentence which adequately allowed for matters in 
mitigation, and which is not crushing. 
64	Mr Bux, it is clear that even after allowing for all mitigating factors in your 
case, a substantial gaol term is warranted on any view of things.  I must give 
appropriate weight to all relevant sentencing considerations.  However, I have 
borne in mind your counsel's submission.  I have done what I can to avoid a 
crushing sentence as such.
65	Would you please stand up?
66	Firstly, I make a Disposal Order in the terms set out in the document handed 
to me.  That order is not opposed.
67	You are sentenced to the following terms of imprisonment:
Charge 1, six years, which will be the base sentence;
Charge 2, two years, six months;
Charge 3, three years, six months;
Charge 4, three years;
Charge 5, two years;
Summary offence of committing an offence whilst on bail, two months.
68	I direct that one year from the sentences on charges 2 and 3, and six months 
from the sentences on charges 4 and 5, as well as one month from the 
summary charge, be served cumulatively with each other and with the base 
sentence, producing a total effective sentence of nine years and one month 
imprisonment and I direct that you serve six years, six months’ imprisonment 
before becoming eligible for parole.
69	I declare that you have already served 280 days by way of pre-sentence 
detention, which will be reckoned as already served.
70	If not for your pleas of guilty, I would have sentenced you to a total effective 
sentence of 12 years’ imprisonment with a non-parole period of nine years’ 
imprisonment.
71	I am mindful of the fact that there were a series of events which occurred on 
the one occasion and I have ordered cumulation notwithstanding that because 
of the nature of each of those facts and the separate impacts that these would 
have had upon a most vulnerable victim.
72	Would you please take a seat for a moment, Mr Bux?  Is there anything 
arising?
73	COUNSEL:  No, Your Honour.
74	HER HONOUR:  Yes, all right, thank you.  Could you please remove Mr Bux?
- - -	

VICTORIAN GOVERNMENT REPORTING SERVICE
7/436 Lonsdale Street, Melbourne Vic 3000 - Telephone 9603 9134
184215

.:	16	SENTENCE
		DPP v Bux
