
IN THE COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
AT MELBOURNE
CRIMINAL DIVISION
Revised
(Not) Restricted


DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC PROSECUTIONS



V






---



JUDGE:
HER HONOUR JUDGE CHAMBERS 
WHERE HELD:
Melbourne
DATE OF HEARING:
13 December, 2016
DATE OF SENTENCE:
23 December, 2016
CASE MAY BE CITED AS:

MEDIUM NEUTRAL CITATION:
[2016] VCC 2048





REASONS FOR SENTENCE
---

Catchwords:	CRIMINAL LAW – Sentence – Not guilty plea on first indictment 
involving charges of aggravated burglary and intentionally causing 
serious injury - guilty plea to second indictment involving charges of 
possessing drugs of dependence – application of principles in R v 
Verdins – extra curial punishment arising from significant gunshot injury 
suffered during course of the offending – added burden of 
imprisonment

Sentence:	6 years’ imprisonment, with a non-parole period of 4 years’ 
imprisonment.
---

APPEARANCES:

Counsel
Solicitors
For the DPP
Mr M. Vella
Office of Public Prosecutions



n two indictments.  The charges relating to Indictment 
F12335292A.1, were the subject of a trial before a jury of 12.  The jury 
unanimously convicted you of the charges of aggravated burglary (Charge 1); 
and intentionally causing serious injury (Charge 2), on 20 October 2016.  I had 
earlier directed your acquittal on the charges of armed robbery (Charge 4); 
and theft (Charge 5).  On 13 December 2016, you pleaded guilty to the 
charges relating to Indictment F12335292B being charges of possessing 
drugs of dependence, namely methylamphetamine (Charge 1); and cannabis 
L (Charge 2), on 23 June 2015.
Circumstances of the offending
2	I turn now to the circumstances of the offending.  
3	Dealing first with the charges of aggravated burglary and intentionally causing 
serious injury in respect of which you were convicted by the jury.  It is my 
responsibility to interpret the facts in a way that is consistent with the jury’s 
verdict.  In this case, I am satisfied beyond reasonable doubt of the substance 
of the account given by the victim in this matter, Mr Brett Barry.
4	Mr Barry lives at Unit 6/64 Graham St, Broadmeadows.  At the time of the 
incident, Mr Barry was 49 years of age.  He suffers from a congenital 
neurological condition and is on a disability pension.  He is assisted in his care 
by a part-time carer, Mr Greg Reiner.
5	On the evening of 17 May 2015, Mr Barry was at his home with Mr Reiner and 
two others.  Shortly after midnight, Mr Reiner assisted Mr Barry to his 
bedroom. Mr Reiner left the address shortly thereafter.  At approximately 2.30 
am,  
Mr Barry became aware of the presence of a group of men standing near  
a vehicle outside his property, having observed them on surveillance cameras 
that he is able to monitor from his bedroom.  Mr Barry yelled out to the group 
from his front door and asked a friend at the house to ensure the front door 
was not opened to the group.  Mr Barry then headed to his bedroom, but after 
hearing yelling at the front door, headed back towards the front of the house, 
along the hallway.
6	At approximately 2.30 am, you and two co-offenders, the identity of whom is 
unknown, entered the property through the front door.  It is not established 
that this occurred by force.  Implicit in the jury verdict, is that you had no right 
or authority to enter that property.  Immediately entering the property, you and 
your two co-accused began to assault Mr Barry by repeatedly hitting him to 
the head and body.  One of your co-offenders was armed with a sawn off-
shotgun and used the butt of the gun in the sustained attack on Mr Barry.  The 
assault continued as you and your co-offenders ushered Mr Barry through the 
hallway and into his bedroom.  His friends were herded into another bedroom.  
During the assault, one of the co-offenders alternated between assaulting Mr 
Barry and going into the other room to ensure Mr Barry’s friends did not 
intervene or assist him.  During the assault, Mr Barry was struck on the head 
a number of times with the butt of the shotgun with such force that he 
sustained a fractured skull and ultimately lost consciousness. 
7	Whilst the assault on Mr Barry was taking place in his bedroom, the sawn-off 
shotgun discharged, striking you in the left forearm.  The impact of this 
shotgun blast, at close range, resulted in you suffering serious and significant 
injury to your left arm.  You and your co-offenders then ran out of the 
premises and drove away from the property.
8	Mr Barry required hospitalisation for the serious head injuries he sustained in 
the attack.  Due to the severity of the skull fracture, he was later transferred 
from the Northern Hospital to the Alfred Hospital.  Dr Bolt, a forensic medical 
registrar with the Victorian Institute of Forensic Medicine examined Mr Barry 
at the Alfred Hospital on 18 May 2015.  In her report dated 28 May 2015, Dr 
Bolt outlined the findings of her examination.  She found that Mr Barry had 
multiple lacerations to his head as a result of a blunt force trauma; a skull 
fracture to the left frontal bone suggesting the application of “significant force”; 
and an extra-dural haematoma.  Mr Barry also suffered an incised wound to 
his skull; injuries and lacerations to the arms; bruising to the right shoulder; 
and bruising and abrasions to the chest and hip as a result of the multiple 
blows he sustained during the assault.  In her report, Dr Bolt expresses the 
opinion that the skull fracture and extra-dural haematoma had the potential to 
be life-threatening injuries, but in Mr Barry’s case, were able to be treated 
conservatively and without surgery.  Mr Barry was hospitalised for five days.
9	Approximately one hour after fleeing the premises, you were taken to the 
Northern Hospital and admitted for corrective and plastic surgery.  On 
examination, you were found to have an open wound and fracture to the left 
elbow, with significant tissue and bone loss compromising the neurovascular 
function of your left arm.  Multiple metal pellets from the gunshot wound were 
embedded in the arm tissue and removed during surgery.  Against medical 
advice, you self-discharged from the Northern Hospital on 18 June 2015, one 
month after your initial admission.
10	Tendered in evidence on the plea were two photographs; one depicting your 
presentation shortly after surgery, and the other following the resolution of the 
surgery, leaving you with an apparent deformity of your left arm and wrist.  
I will return to the relevance of the injuries you sustained during the offence 
later in my reasons for sentence. 
11	You were subsequently arrested by investigators on 23 June 2015.  Relevant 
to the second indictment, you were found in possession of a small amount of 
methylamphetamine and two clear plastic bags containing a small amount of 
cannabis L. 
12	You were interviewed by police that day.  In your record of interview, you told 
investigators that you attended at the property with the co-offenders, that one 
of them was armed but that you did not know who, that the reason you all 
attended the property was because you “guessed one of them was owed or 
something”.  You further stated that you were present in the bedroom, but 
played no direct part in the assault.  You said you were searching through  
Mr Barry’s possessions and as you stood on his bed, you were shot in the arm 
by one of your co-offenders. 
13	Mr Taha, the jury has convicted you of serious offending.  This was  
a confrontational aggravated burglary, involving entry to the home of Mr Barry, 
in the company with others, in the early hours of the morning, with the 
intention to assault.  Your co-offender was armed with a shotgun.  It was a 
serious example of this kind of offence.  In respect of your culpability, the 
Crown accepts it could not establish that you knew of the existence of the 
shotgun prior to entering the premises, but I am satisfied beyond reasonable 
doubt that it was produced immediately upon entry and that, from that time, 
you were aware your co-offender was armed.
14	The assault on Mr Barry, a man with a significant disability, was sustained and 
unprovoked.  He was clearly defenceless against the attack being made upon 
him.  Although you were not in possession of the shotgun and were not 
responsible for striking Mr Barry with the shotgun, you certainly participated in 
the assault and assisted the other offenders by your participation.  The injuries 
Mr Barry sustained were extensive and very serious, particularly by reference 
to the fractured skull and haematoma. 
15	Tendered on the plea without objection was a victim impact statement, 
prepared on behalf of Mr Barry by his carer, Mr Reiner.  This statement 
outlines the impact the events of the night have had on Mr Barry’s wellbeing 
and sense of safety.  He has sought a transfer to other housing, as he no 
longer feels safe in his home.  I have had regard to the impact of the offending 
on Mr Barry in sentencing you.
16	As to the charges of possession of drugs of dependence, the prosecution 
accepts that the small amounts found were for personal use and no more.   
I sentence you on the possession charges on that basis.
17	In sentencing you, I have had regard to the maximum penalties for these 
offences, being 25 years’ imprisonment for aggravated burglary, and 20 years’ 
imprisonment for intentionally causing serious injury.  For the offence of 
possessing a drug of dependence, being methylamphetamine, the maximum 
penalty is 30 penalty units or one years' imprisonment, and for possession of 
cannabis L, it is five penalty units. 
18	I turn now to your personal circumstances.
19	You are now aged 27.  You were born in Melbourne and are one of ten 
siblings. Your parents, born in Lebanon, have been married for over 40 years 
and continue to provide you with emotional support, including during this court 
process.  You completed Year 10, before ceasing studies part way through  
Year 11 and have been employed in various casual positions since that time, 
as a carpenter and in other trade work. 
20	You were assessed by Mr Mathew Staios, Consultant Psychologist, on  
25 November 2016, for the purposes of this plea.  You told Mr Staios that 
whilst you viewed your childhood in a positive light, you felt that you were 
often overlooked and struggled to find your place in the family.  You told Mr 
Staios that you were sexually abused between the ages of 12 to 13 and that 
from the age of 16 years, you began to associate with negative peer groups 
and started using drugs on a regular basis, including methamphetamine from 
the age of 18. You told Mr Staios that you were admitted to the Northern 
Hospital in 2015 with a drug overdose and remained under medical attention 
for two nights.
21	Your criminal history dates back to 2008 when you were aged 19.  In that 
year, you were sentenced by the County Court to a 12 month term of 
imprisonment that was wholly suspended for 18 months, and a 12 month 
community based order on charges of attempted armed robbery and 
possessing an unregistered handgun.  In 2009, you were sentenced to a term 
of eight months’ imprisonment to be served by way of an intensive correction 
order on a charge of recklessly causing injury.  Between 2008 and 2014, you 
have been convicted of other offending, including charges of dishonesty, 
possessing drugs of dependence and driving-related offending.  Relevantly, 
you have also numerous priors for breaching community based dispositions, 
including a breach of the Intensive Correction Order imposed in 2009, 
resulting in you serving the unexpired portion of 128 days in 2011. 
22	Further, although not a prior conviction, on 17 March 2016, you were 
convicted of charges including possession of methylamphetamine, entering a 
private place and contravention of bail and were sentenced to six months’ 
imprisonment.
23	Mr Staios, in his report, says he assessed you whilst in custody using the 
Depression Anxiety Stress Scale (DASS-21) and found you are “currently 
experiencing symptoms of depression and stress in the moderate range and 
anxiety in the mild range”.  He said that based on clinical interviewing, he 
assessed you as currently meeting the criteria for a diagnosis of a “Major 
Depressive Disorder (with anxious distress), and Stimulant Use Disorder (in 
early remission, in a controlled environment)”. 
24	Mr Staios says you attribute your offending to poor decision-making under the 
influence of substances and the influence of negative peers.  In his opinion, 
the combination of “themes of rejection” and the influence of negative peers, 
have resulted in “maladaptive coping mechanisms and substance use, 
subsequently impacting on [your] reasoning skills and decision-making 
capacity”. 
25	On your behalf, it was submitted that the opinion of Mr Staios is sufficient to 
found the application of the principles enunciated in R v Verdins and that 
general and specific deterrence should be moderated in circumstances where 
your mental health warrants a reduction in your moral culpability.  In my view 
however, this submission mischaracterises Mr Staios’ assessment of your 
mental health.  What matters is what the evidence shows about the nature, 
extent and effect of any mental impairment experienced by an offender at the 
relevant time.  Here, whilst Mr Staios finds that you are currently suffering 
from depression, coupled with mild anxiety, he draws no conclusions as to 
your mental health at the time of the offending or its nexus with the offending. 
Accordingly, there is no evidentiary basis upon which I can find your moral 
culpability is reduced as a result of impaired mental health at the relevant 
time.
26	It was further submitted that your current mental health enlivens the sixth limb 
of Verdins in mitigation of sentence.  An offender is entitled to such mitigation 
where “there is a serious risk of imprisonment having a significant adverse 
effect on an offender’s mental health”.  Here the evidence relied upon is the 
opinion expressed by Mr Staios that, 
	“From a psychological perspective, given his poor history 
	of psychological health, if required to serve an extended 
	sentence in prison, 	I am concerned that such a setting 
	could serve to exacerbate his existing psychological 
	vulnerabilities”.  
In my view, this opinion is not cogent evidence of a serious risk of 
imprisonment having a significant adverse effect on your mental health and 
accordingly, I am not satisfied Verdins applies in mitigation of your sentence 
on that ground.
27	On your behalf, it was also submitted that the gunshot wound you sustained 
during the offending and which resulted in a significant injury to your left 
elbow, constitutes extra curial punishment and that the court should take into 
account the serious and life-long detriment you suffered as a result of 
committing the offence.  Unfortunately, I have not been assisted in 
determining this issue with any up-to-date medical material regarding your 
current condition, although it was submitted on your behalf, and I accept, that 
you have been left with a notable deformity to your left arm and require daily 
medication in custody to manage ongoing pain associated with this injury. 
28	Whilst there are inherent risks in participating in offending involving an assault 
with the use of a shotgun in a confined space, I accept that the significant 
injury you sustained as a result of your role in the offending should be given 
weight in sentencing.  It is certainly a constant reminder of the consequences 
of your offending.  More significantly and of greater weight, I accept that the 
residual effects of the injury, being the deformity to your arm, noting the 
submission that this has resulted in taunting and bullying from other inmates, 
together with ongoing pain, will be an added burden of imprisonment.  I have 
taken this into account in mitigation of your sentence.
29	Finally it was submitted that your plea offer, to lesser offences, and 
participation in the record of interview, were indicators of your remorse.  
Reliance is also placed on the statement in Mr Staios’ report that whilst 
discussing the offending, you expressed remorse for your actions and 
displayed empathy for the harm caused to the victim.  
30	Whilst you are entitled to exercise your right to a trial, I am unable to conclude 
that an offer to plead to a lesser offences should be taken into account in 
sentencing as an indication of remorse.  Similarly, your limited admissions to 
attendance at the property during the record of interview are of limited 
relevance when viewed in the context of the jury’s verdict in this case.  I am 
not satisfied that your participation in the record of interview was indicative of 
remorse for your offending.  I do however, take into account the observations 
of Mr Staios.
31	Your counsel properly accepted that this was serious offending.  The Crown 
concur and submit that weight should be given in sentencing you to just 
punishment, general and having regard to your priors, specific deterrence, 
denunciation and protection of the community.
32	Given your prior history and in particular your history of breaching community 
based dispositions, I am somewhat guarded about your prospects of 
rehabilitation. Your rehabilitation is very much dependent upon your 
commitment to treatment for your drug addiction and decisions you make 
about those with whom you choose to associate.  You certainly have the 
support of family, which has been evident to me throughout the course of 
these proceedings.  Mr Staios recommends you be referred to a forensic 
psychologist for treatment to address substance abuse issues, emotional dis-
regulation, consequential thinking and depression. 
33	Your counsel submits this could best be achieved through a combined 
sentence of imprisonment and a community corrections order, but in my view, 
the objective seriousness of your offending and the need to sentence you on 
both offences in a manner that operates as a general and specific deterrent, 
precludes such a sentence.  I have also had regard to the decision of the 
Court of Appeal in DPP v Bowden and the need to impose a sentence that 
reflects the objective gravity of offending involving aggravated burglary.  Your 
sentence must manifest the community’s denunciation for serious offending of 
this kind and impose just punishment. 
34	I have however, taken into account the additional burden of imprisonment and 
the need to facilitate your rehabilitation in the fixing of your non-parole period. 
I have also had regard to the totality principle in determining the period of 
concurrency which, but for that principle, would otherwise not be ordered.
35	This was, on any view, serious offending.  In the circumstances, you are 
convicted and sentenced as follows:
36	Mr Taha, if you could please stand.  
Indictment F12335292A
37	Charge 1 of the trial indictment , Charge 1 being aggravated burglary, you are 
convicted and sentenced to five years’ imprisonment.
38	Charge 2, intentionally causing serious injury, you are convicted and 
sentenced to four years’ imprisonment.
Indictment F12335292B
39	On the plea indictment, on Charge 1, possession of a drug of dependence, 
namely methylamphetamine, you are convicted and sentenced to one months’ 
imprisonment.
40	On Charge 2, possession of a drug of dependence, namely Cannabis L, you 
are convicted and fined $800.00, without stay.
41	I direct that the sentence on Charge 1, aggravated burglary, be the base 
sentence.  I direct that one year of the sentence imposed on Charge 2, 
intentionally causing serious injury, be served cumulatively upon Charge 1.  
This gives a total effective sentence on the trial indictment of six years’ 
imprisonment.
42	I direct that the sentence of one months' imprisonment on the plea indictment 
be served concurrently with the other sentences imposed this day.
43	I direct that you must serve four years’ imprisonment before being eligible for 
parole. 
44	I declare and I will confirm with counsel, that you have served 172 days by 
way of pre-sentence detention.
45	I also make the disposition order sought by the prosecution.  Thank you.
46	MR FITZPATRICK:  I am in concurrency with that 172 days, Your Honour.
47	MR VELLA:  As are the Crown, Your Honour.  
48	HER HONOUR:  Thank you.  There are no other queries in relation to the 
sentence?  
49	COUNSEL:  No, Your Honour.    
50	HER HONOUR:  Thank you.  If you could take Mr Taha.  
51	I will adjourn.  
- - -

 

1



COUNTY COURT OF VICTORIA
250 William Street, Melbourne
184768


!Undefined Bookmark, I



VCC:MC
1
SENTENCE
 

