Mohammed Rima, on indictment No. 
G11626089, you have pleaded guilty to three charges of theft, one charge of reckless cause injury, one charge of robbery, two charges of armed robbery and one charge of possess a drug of dependence. 
The maximum penalty for theft is ten years. 
For recklessly causing injury, it is five years. 
For robbery, it's 15 years. 
For armed robbery, it's 25 years and for possess a drug of dependence being cannabis, if it is not for a trafficking purpose, it is five penalty units. 
Connected with this offending, you have also pleaded guilty to the summary offence of contravene condition of bail, for which the maximum penalty is 30 penalty units or three months' imprisonment, and assault, for which the maximum penalty is 12 months' imprisonment. 
Is that correct? 
MS HAMILL:  It is 12 months' imprisonment, Your Honour. 
HER HONOUR:  It is not the 
MS HAMILL:  It is the aggravated version, which is in s.24. 
HER HONOUR:  It is a different version. 
It is 12 months' imprisonment. 
MS HAMILL:  Yes. 
HER HONOUR:  All right, thank you.Circumstances of offending 
The circumstances of your offending are set out in full in the prosecution opening, which will form part of this sentence. 
The charges relate to offending against six taxi drivers in the Brunswick area between 6 June and 15 June 2016. 
Charge 1 relates to theft of a mobile phone from a taxi drive when, together with two other males, you were passengers in his taxi in Sydney Road, Brunswick on 6 June 2016. 
Charge 2 relates to the theft of a mobile phone from a taxi driver on 8 June 2016, when you and your co-offender, Alouch, were travelling in this cab to North Coburg. 
You also took coins worth about $5 from the centre console. 
In the course of taking the phone from the taxi driver, you punched and slapped his face, and that action relates to summary Charge 7 of assault. 
You were apprehended and arrested not long after this incident, and you were granted bail with curfew conditions. 
However, you breached bail by committing the following offences. 
Charge 3 of theft, which involves the theft of a mobile phone from a taxi driver on 11 June 2016 in a dead end street of Sydney Road, Coburg. 
This time, your offenders were Alouch and an unknown male. 
Charge 4 of recklessly cause injury relates to the same incident. 
The taxi driver pursued you when you ran from the taxi. 
During the course of the pursuit, the unknown offender dropped the mobile phone and the taxi driver stopped to retrieve it. 
He saw you standing a short distance away with your fists raised. 
He raised his fists or hands into the air. 
You then punched him in the face, fracturing his nose. 
Charge 5 of robbery relates to an incident which took place on 14 June 2016, after you and Alouch hailed a cab in Sydney Road, Brunswick. 
On this occasion, you placed your hand around the taxi driver's neck while your co-offender took a packet of cigarettes from the glove box. 
Charge 6 relates to an armed robbery about an hour and a half after the previous incident. 
On this occasion, you again grabbed the taxi driver by the neck. 
But this time, you produced an offensive weapon, which was a screw driver. 
Alouch said to you, "We have a knife. 
Stab him. 
Kill him" and you repeatedly struck the taxi driver with the object to the back of his head. 
However, no injuries were caused. 
While you did this, Alouch took the mobile phone. 
By committing this offence, you breached your bail conditions. 
Charge 7 relates to an armed robbery which took place in a street off Sydney Road, Brunswick on 15 June at 2 am, some two hours after the previous offence. 
Once again, during this robbery, you put your arm around the taxi driver's neck and Alouch pulled out a screw driver and put it to his next. 
The taxi driver managed to fend you both off. 
But before leaving, you punched him to the right side of his head and took cash from the centre console. 
At about 3 am on the same day, one of your previous victims observed you together with Alouch in Sydney Road. 
The police were alerted and you were arrested a short time afterwards. 
During your arrest, the police found 6 grams of cannabis in a small bag in your possession, which relates to Charge 8, possess cannabis. 
Summary Charge 23, contravening conditions of bail, relates to three failures to comply with your curfew, during which period you committed offences. 
MS HAMILL:  I think it is two, Your Honour. 
But yes. 
HER HONOUR:  It is two, is it? 
Sorry. 
Two failures. 
During you record of interview, you made some admissions. 
You claimed that Alouch had planned the offending and told you what to do. 
Moving onto indictment G1320200716. 
On this indictment, you have pleaded guilty to two charges of armed robbery and the summary offences of commit an indictable offence while on bail, which has a maximum sentence of 30 penalty units or three months' imprisonment, and assault in company, which has a penalty of 15 penalty units or three months' imprisonment. 
These offences occurred after you were released on bail in August 2016, and arose in the context of three street muggings in the general vicinity of many of your earlier offences. 
Charge 1 concerns an armed robbery which took place on 20 November 2016 in the Brunswick area, where shortly after midnight, you and Alouch robbed the victim of his wallet and phone. 
During this robbery, Alouch pulled out a knife with a long, thin blade, approximately 12 inches long and pointed it at the victim's stomach. 
You punched the victim twice in his right ear. 
When the victim went home, he called the police. 
He described the incident as making him scared to leave his home. 
Charge 2 concerns an armed robbery committed by you and Alouch on the following day, 22 November 2016, once again in Brunswick. 
On this occasion, you came up behind the victim who was carrying a satchel bag containing a Lomo mode brand camera, amongst other items. 
You grabbed his face around his mouth and forcefully pulled his head back. 
When he tried to remove his hands, you punched him to the right side of his face. 
As he continued to push away, he was hit multiple times, but the prosecution cannot say who continued to hit him. 
The value of the items stolen in that incident was approximately $460. 
The victim thought he was going to be stabbed. 
He described having a sore jaw and red marks, and some swelling to his face. 
Summary Charge 8, assault in company, relates to an incident which took place 45 minutes later, when you or Alouch pushed a man walking in the vicinity of the Jewel Railway Station from behind, causing him to fall to the ground and suffer some grazing to his knee. 
You were observed by witnesses and arrested not long after this incident. 
When you were arrested, you were carrying a black bag containing, amongst other things, a large kitchen knife, a Lomo mode brand camera matching the one stolen earlier in the evening. 
While you admitted to breaching your bail conditions, you made a largely no comment record of interview. 
Summary Charge 18 of commit an indictable offence on bail relates to the commission of the armed robberies I have referred to earlier. 
Your co-offender, Mohammed Alouch, pleaded guilty in the Children's Court to one charge of theft, one charge of robbery and one charge of armed robbery. 
In addition to these charges, he pled guilty to a further three charges in relation to two other instances involving taxi drivers where you were not involved.Personal circumstances 
Your personal circumstances are that you were born in Melbourne on 24 April 1991 after your parents had immigrated to this country from Lebanon. 
You are one of seven children. 
You grew up in the family home in Broadmeadows. 
You have a good relationship with your siblings and family. 
You experienced difficulty in school and completed your education in Year 9 at the Hume Valley Special School. 
After school, you worked at Hungry Jack's for a period and you have also been employed as an apprentice painter. 
However, you struggled with basic tasks in both these jobs and because of your level of literacy, you were unable to maintain them. 
In 2010, you and your parents were the victim of an aggravated burglary. 
You were also present at the Broadmeadows Mosque during an incident where three men were attacked by a man with a knife. 
One man was killed and another two were seriously injured. 
To cap it all off, in this same year, you were assaulted at the Upfield Railway Station and required stiches after being punched in the face. 
You also suffered a fractured nose. 
In 2011, you began to leave the family home on your own and socialised with negative peers. 
In 2012, you pleaded guilty to robbery, attempted robbery and theft. 
You were sentenced to 12 months' imprisonment. 
However, on appeal, you were convicted and sentenced to a community correction order for 12 months with a justice plan. 
You successfully completed this order. 
In between 2013 and 2016, you attempted courses in landscaping and carpentry. 
You worked as a dish washer, and in the family business for a period of time, but you ceased work due to that business suffering financial difficulties. 
Your younger brother, Sam, with whom you have a very close relationship, left the family home and moved to Sydney. 
You became increasingly isolated. 
You hung out with the wrong people and this led to the commission of the offences I am sentencing you on today.Psychological material 
You were referred to Mr Jackson for a neuro psychological assessment, and he provided a report to the court dated 24 May 2017. 
His main conclusions could be summarised as follows:as a result of severe whooping cough when you were a baby, you suffered a hypoxic brain injury; you have a mild to moderate intellectual disability;  your cognitive abilities are extremely severely impaired, especially attention, new learning, memory and executive functions;  due to the severity of your impairment, you are very vulnerable to being used and abused by others in the community;  there is a clear relationship between your cognitive impairments and the offending behaviour. 
Mr Jackson was of the opinion that it was highly likely that imprisonment would have a significant impact on you. 
There was a risk of you being used and abused by the prisoners. 
You did not have the capacity to learn even basic routines and this put you at risk of getting into trouble with prison officers. 
The only way of promoting rehabilitation, in his opinion, was to put in positive supports and structures around you in the community. 
You were also referred to Dr Aaron Cunningham, who reported that you met the diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder. 
He administered an IQ test and found that the results were consistent with an intellectual disability. 
In his opinion, your depression was based on your loneliness, isolation and lack of self-worth. 
In the context of your social disconnection and intellectual impairment, you were vulnerable to the influence of others. 
Your intellectual impairment and depression contributed to your offending. 
On a more positive note, he said that you had several current protective factors that may reduce your risk factors and stabilise you in the community. 
You had a supportive family and stable accommodation. 
You understood the wrongfulness of your actions and you would benefit from increased disability case management in the community, and psychological intervention to treat your depression.Character references 
There are a number of character references tendered to the court. 
There was one from your sister, your brother or two of your brothers, three of yours brothers, sorry, your father and a family friend. 
It was apparent from these references that all these people care about you and want to help you. 
Your father provided some background to the effect of your intellectual disability on you. 
Your depression and frustration, not being able to fit in socially with any group of friends, your difficulties in finding employment, the fact that you have not been able to obtain your driver's license, despite five attempts. 
He described you as being bored with no structure and nothing to do at the time of your offending. 
Your sister described how since you have been in prison, you have taken various steps and various steps have been taken to support you. 
You are seeing the psychologist, receiving treatment for your anxiety and depression. 
You are seeing your case worker on a regular basis. 
You are no longer associating with negative peers. 
You have been residing at Ozanam House and there is a plan for you to move to new housing. 
The character references all mention that you have shown remorse for your behaviour and empathy for your victims. 
Defence submissions 
In her submissions on your behalf, your counsel conceded that your offending was objectively serious. 
Your involvement was over two discrete periods and the victims were vulnerable. 
The violence employed caused fear and injury. 
However, it was submitted that due to your mental deficiencies, there should be a reduced level of moral culpability. 
With respect to your mental deficiencies, your counsel relied on the reports of Mr Jackson and Dr Cunningham. 
In particular, it was submitted that your impairment rendered you vulnerable to negative peer influences and that it was negative peer influence which was the cause of your involvement in the offending incidents. 
While your main co-offender was younger than you, he had planned the offending and told you what to do. 
Your counsel relied on the principles set out in a case called R v Verdins, not only to reduce the level of moral culpability and moderate general and specific deterrence, but also, to require as careful consideration of impact that a further custodial sentence would have on you. 
For these reasons, I ordered a pre-sentence assessment report as to your suitability for a community corrections order together with a justice plan and a statement of intellectual disability. 
In doing so, I took into account that you have served I think it was 226 days pre-sentence detention. 
Two sixty-eight. 
Two sixty-eight, sorry, days of pre-sentence detention. 
I have now received a pre-sentence report and a statement that you have an intellectual disability as defined by the Disability Act, together with a justice plan. 
The pre-sentence assessment report identified that your mental health issues, compounded by negative peer associations, had been the major contributing factors towards your offending. 
You now have very good family support and stable accommodation. 
You expressed some level of remorse regarding your actions. 
Based on your experience in prison, as well as the negative effect that it appeared to have had on your mental health and your integration back into the community, it was recommended that a community corrections order with supervision and a justice plan would assist your offending behaviour, as well as your path to rehabilitation. 
In their report, the Department of Health and Human Services recommended available services to reduce the likelihood of your reoffending. 
The Department would monitor your participation in the services recommended to the justice plan, and would advise appropriate authorities if the plan needed review. 
In her further plea on your behalf, your counsel relied on the fact that the pre-sentence report confirmed that you have an intellectual disability. 
Your time in custody had a negative effect on your mental health, and that negative peer associations had been the major contributing factor towards your offending. 
Your counsel informed the court that you had been scared in custody. 
On the first day in the court cells, you had been choked until you were unconscious. 
At Port Phillip Prison, you had been assaulted, suffering an injury to your jaw. 
At MRC, you had been sexually assaulted on more than one occasion, but you had been too scared to report it. 
There had been an exacerbation of your anxiety and depression as a consequence of these experiences. 
Your family reported that you had suffered from nightmares since you had been released on bail, and you had attended hospital with paranoia and anxiety and threats of self-harm. 
In this respect, your counsel tendered a discharge form from Orion Youth Health dated 2 March 2018.Prosecution submissions 
However, the Crown submitted that a sentence of immediate confinement was appropriate. 
Having regard to the serious persistence of your offending, a combined sentence of imprisonment followed by a community corrections order was not open to the court. 
In making this submission, the Crown did not dispute that the principles in Verdins case applied, so that general and specific deterrence ought to be moderated. 
However, it was submitted that even allowing for moderation, your offending warranted a sentence of immediate imprisonment in excess of what had already been served and in excess of what could be combined with a community corrections order. 
In making this submission, the Crown relied on the following matters:  The offending was objectively serious, as there were nine incidents of offending, including four counts of armed robbery;  The victims were soft targets;  The offending was in company;  The offending occurred at night and in the early hours of the morning;There was a degree of planning involved and there was escalating in the offending;You played a physical role in each of the incidents. 
It was an aggravating feature;You were on bail when they had been committed;  You have relevant priors;You had been assessed as a moderate risk of reoffending, but your prospects of rehabilitation were difficult to assess, having regard to your intellectual disability;Your intellectual disability did not affect your capacity to appreciate the wrongfulness of your actions, and the application of parity, it was limited because the co-offender was dealt with by the Children's Court and did not plead guilty to all the - in relation to all the offences, which were subject of these indictments. 
The Crown also referred the court to the cases Nguyen v The Queen and Gerbing and Croughan v The Queen, where despite the application of the Verdins principles, the appellants who had pleaded guilty to armed robbery charges were all sentenced to periods of - were both sentenced to periods of imprisonment.Sentencing remarks 
While your offending is of a very serious nature, and general deterrence and denunciation of your conduct would normally play a large role in sentencing for offences such as yours. 
I accept that your intellectual disability and other cognitive impairments had the effect of impairing your ability to exercise appropriate judgment and impaired your ability to make calm, rationale choices to think clearly at the time of the offence. 
In particular, I am satisfied that your intellectual deficits made you extremely susceptible to negative peer influence. 
This conclusion is supported by the reports of Mr Jackson and Aaron Cunningham, and the pre-sentence report obtained by the court. 
Indeed, the Crown accepts that the principle in Verdins case applies so that general and specific deterrence should be moderated. 
In addition, I have no difficulty in accepting that a custodial sentence will weigh more heavily on you than someone without your deficits, and that there is a risk that it will exacerbate your condition. 
In particular, because there is a strong likelihood that others will take advantage of your intellectual deficiencies to manipulate and threaten you, which would have an adverse effect on your mental health. 
On p.11 of his report, Mr Jackson stated that it was clear that there had been a change in your mental health since coming out of prison, and that the longer you remained in prison, the worse it was likely to become. 
It appears from the expert reports that the key factor, which is relevant to your prospects of rehabilitation, is that you continue to receive support from your family and that a structured support system is set in place. 
In addition, that you are removed from any negative peer influences. 
Taking into account all the mitigating circumstances in this case, including your plea of guilty, for which you were entitled to a discount, applying the principle in Verdins case, I have decided that a combination sentence is within range. 
In coming to this conclusion, I have taken into account the difficulties you experienced while in custody and the impact it had on your mental health. 
Insofar as the safety of the community is concerned, one of the most important sentencing consideration is your prospects of rehabilitation. 
In a letter to the court, your father said,"Since Mohammed has been out of prison, we have ensured we got him the help he needed. 
My daughter, Roba and I have been able to get him into numerous programs to support him. 
He has been seeing a psychologist. 
He has completely changed since being out of prison.He has stopped going out with friends. 
He's been working on being better. 
He's been working with my son-in-law as a kitchen hand and he's been doing his best to succeed. 
He has been treated for his anxiety and depression. 
He sees his case worker regularly. 
I can honestly say that I'm happy that Mohammed is now receiving professional support." 
A community corrections order, together with a justice plan will ensure that you continue to receive appropriate supports so that your chance of rehabilitation is optimised. 
Insofar as the two cases the Crown referred me to are concerned, I note that in Croughan's case, he had many prior convictions for violence and dishonesty spanning the whole  of his adult life. 
He had previously had a community-based order in the past and breached the order. 
He had also been sentenced to suspended and partially suspended terms of imprisonment and breached them. 
In addition, he had been involved in serious subsequent offending, including the stabbing. 
With Gerbing, he had 19 prior convictions. 
He had received non-custodial and custody dispositions in respect of acts of violence, including recklessly causing serious injury and making a threat to kill. 
In contrast, you have only two prior court appearances, albeit that they involved a robbery and attempted robbery. 
You were sentenced to a community corrections order and you successfully completed that order, together with a justice plan. 
Would you please stand up?Sentence 
On indictment G626089, on Charges 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, you are sentenced to 268 days, followed by a community corrections order with a justice plan for three years. 
The conditions of the community corrections order will be that you are to be subject to disability case management through a justice plan to be attached to the community corrections order. 
The programs under the justice plan will be a violent intervention program, a social problem solving program, communication and social skills program. 
Mental health and psychological counselling will also be administrated through the justice plan. 
With respect to supervision, this will be through the Community Corrections staff. 
Charge 8, possess a drug of dependence. 
You are convicted and fined $150. 
On the summary charge of contravene bail conditions, you are sentenced to one months' imprisonment. 
On indictment G13202716, on Charges 1 and 2 of armed robbery, you are sentenced to 268 days, followed by a community corrections order with a justice plan for three years. 
It is concurrent with the order on the previous indictment and the conditions are the same. 
On summary charges, unlawful assault in company, you are sentenced to one month and commit indictable offence on bail, you are sentenced to one month. 
I want to say that in this case, it was obvious that your mental health condition played a large role in the sentencing process. 
As did the fact that you were someone with mental health issues that was taken advantage of by other peoples in the community. 
This is an issue that the court is seeing again and again. 
People with serious mental concerns, living in our community, who are not supported in a structured enough way so that they are then taken advantage of by other people and they end up committing crimes. 
It is a real pity that there were no proper structures in place after you finished - well I should say, in 2016 and at the time you were offending. 
You should always be receiving assistance in relation to seeing a psychologist and psychiatrist. 
You should always be doing programs. 
People should always be monitoring where you are going, what you are doing, who you are meeting. 
You need to be supervised in our community and looked after properly so that the community is not at risk. 
I also want to say to you that you do know what you did was wrong, and you have showed some remorse. 
Just imagine if it was your father who was sitting in that taxi cab and some boy in the back of the cab or some man in the back of the cab put his arm around your father's throat and held a screwdriver to his throat, and threatened him, and took his phone. 
You would feel really bad about that. 
That would be an awful thing to do. 
You must never, ever again get into this sort of trouble. 
The court would have absolutely no hesitation in sending you back to gaol, and we know what happened when you were in gaol. 
Do you understand that? 
All right, you can take a seat. 
Two hundred and sixty-eight days is reckoned as time served. 
But for your plea of guilty, you would have been sentenced to three years, to serve two because of course, the principles in Verdins case, which still apply. 
MS HAMILL:  Your Honour, just a couple of matters arising from Your Honour's sentence. 
HER HONOUR:  Yes. 
MS HAMILL:  I did not hear Your Honour give a sentence in relation toCharge 7 on Mr Feeban's brief, which was the charge that Mr Rima has today pleaded guilty to. 
HER HONOUR:  One month. 
MS HAMILL:  And I am assuming from Your Honour's sentence that Your Honour intends for Mr Rima not to spend any further time in custody. 
HER HONOUR:  Correct. 
MS HAMILL:  That being so, Your Honour, he has 268 PSD in relation to the Feeban matter, which is the taxi driver offending. 
But he only has 221 days in relation to the last two matters being the two armed robberies and the unlawful assault on the Squires brief. 
So 
HER HONOUR:  Thank you for bringing that to my attention. 
MS HAMILL:  Yes. 
HER HONOUR:  Given that it was only 221 days in relation to the two offences on the second indictment, the sentence on that indictment will be to 221 days followed by a community corrections order. 
MS HAMILL:  There were 
HER HONOUR:  Are there a number of disposal orders? 
MS HAMILL:  Yes, Your Honour. 
There is 
HER HONOUR:  I have made a disposal order in relation to the various items that are set out in the schedule. 
Are there any other orders sought? 
MS HAMILL:  In relation to the disposal orders, Your Honour, there was an amended order sent to the court today, which includes cannabis. 
That was the subject of Charge 8 on the Squires indictment. 
HER HONOUR:  I have signed all the disposal orders and this is the one in relation to the cannabis. 
I hope I have got one. 
Yes, one Ziploc bag containing cannabis? 
MS HAMILL:  Yes, Your Honour. 
Obviously the plea was first heard quite some time ago. 
I could not remember whether those orders had been handed up. 
There was also an application for the taking of a forensic sample. 
HER HONOUR:  Is that consented to? 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  Yes. 
I am instructed by Ms Parsons that is consented to. 
HER HONOUR:  All right. 
I have made that order because of the seriousness of the offences. 
The order is by consent. 
It is in the public interest and it is by, as I said, it is by consent. 
MS HAMILL:  Yes, Your Honour. 
There will have been two copies or two versions of that order handed up. 
Your Honour will need to sign the non-custodial one. 
HER HONOUR:  Yes, all right. 
Mr Rima, there is something else I have to tell you. 
The police are going to take - stand up. 
The police are going to be taking a forensic sample from you. 
Your lawyer will explain it to you. 
But what they do is they put a cotton bud in your mouth and the just rub it up and down a little bit and then they take it out. 
OFFENDER:  All right. 
HER HONOUR:  And if you were to resist that, they can use force. 
But I am sure you will have no problems with that. 
All right, good. 
Is there - just need the signing of the CCO? 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  Your Honour, may I seek leave to stand with Mr Rima while he signs? 
Thank you. 
HER HONOUR:  Yes. 
In a more formal way, I think I told your client in a pretty direct way that if he breached the orders by committing another offence, he would be going to gaol. 
That means that you must comply with all the conditions that are in the order and of the justice plan, and I will expect your client, because of your cognitive problems, to very carefully, after this court hearing, sit down with you and take you through the document together with your parents, so that you fully understand exactly what is involved. 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  Yes. 
HER HONOUR:  Yes. 
I will indicate that I consider that in this case, it is appropriate the counsel sit down and go through the matters in the community corrections order with him carefully. 
MS HAMILL:  Yes, Your Honour. 
HER HONOUR:  Because I do not consider that doing it here in court in any more detail than I already have is going to be of any useful purpose. 
MS HAMILL:  Yes, Your Honour. 
I also - I appreciate that Ms Parsons who would ordinarily be appearing for Mr Rima has had quite a significant amount of involvement with both Mr Rima and his family. 
So it may be that in addition to his counsel today explaining it, that she may do so also at a later point. 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  Yes, Your Honour. 
I will indicate that to Ms Parsons. 
HER HONOUR:  Yes. 
I think that would be advisable. 
If she could do that and perhaps if I can be advised whether it is has been done or not. 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  Yes, Your Honour. 
HER HONOUR:  Thank you. 
Is there anything else arising? 
MS KRETZENBACHER:  No, Your Honour. 
HER HONOUR:  Thank you. 
