Wenting Yu, you have pleaded guilty to one charge of dangerous driving causing death contrary to s.319(1) of the Crimes Act 1958. 
The maximum penalty for that offence is 10 years' imprisonment. 
You pleaded guilty at the filing hearing in the Magistrates' Court and I have taken your early plea into account in your favour in mitigation of sentence. 
It is a high value plea which has spared the community the expense of a complex criminal trial and a number of witnesses the burden of giving evidence of traumatic events. 
It is also evidence of your deep remorse in this case and I have taken your plea into account in your favour in mitigation of sentence. 
You have no prior convictions, subsequent convictions outstanding charges or indeed traffic infringements. 
A prosecution opening was read to the court and tendered in evidence and your offending may be summarised as follows 
At approximately 8 pm on 4 March 2016 you were driving members of your family to the top of Mt Dandenong to observe the sunset. 
You were carrying four passengers, two of whom were your grandparents, who were in Melbourne to visit you and to have a holiday. 
They were to return to China the following day. 
At the time, you were an extremely inexperienced driver. 
You had held a driver's licence since January 2015 but had only commenced driving when you purchased your vehicle in December 2015. 
That is, three months prior to the collision. 
Apart from driving lessons, you had not ever driven prior to gaining your licence and due to your age you were not required to complete the 120 hours driving required of persons under 21. 
On the evening in question, a cousin who was an experienced driver was to drive your relatives to Mt Dandenong and he became ill and the task fell to you. 
You entered the Mt Dandenong Tourist Road approximately two kilometres from the collision scene to drive up the mountain. 
The road conditions were dry and the weather fine but the road is a winding complex single lane roadway. 
Four other vehicles were following you and you were driving at 40 kilometres an hour in a 70 kilometre zone. 
Although advisory signs suggested vehicles travel at 45 kilometres an hour around the tight bends. 
Concerned about the vehicles behind you and wrongly thinking that the roadway was a dual carriageway you moved to the right lane to let the vehicles pass. 
You remained in that position for between 15 and 20 seconds. 
On a blind right hand corner your vehicle was struck head on by an oncoming vehicle carrying two persons. 
The occupants of that vehicle did not suffer serious injuries and they were extremely fortunate to have not done so. 
In your vehicle, your grandfather suffered injuries from which he died on 5 March 2016 and your grandmother and others were also injured as were you. 
The collision was caused by your confusion regarding the carriageway and your great inexperience as a driver. 
I accept that your driving was dangerous, as do you by your plea, but the root cause of it was as I have described. 
You had not consumed any alcohol or drugs and you were not driving in excess of the speed limit and further there was nothing deliberately reckless about your driving. 
In my opinion, your offending falls at the lowest end of the scale of seriousness for this offence and had your vehicle crossed over to the wrong side of the road for a significantly shorter period I doubt that the charge could be made out against you. 
This is a tragic case with tragic consequences for you and whilst I am also required to have regard to principles of general deterrence and punishment in fixing the sentence in this case I have no doubt that your moral culpability for your offending is also at the lowest end of the scale for such cases. 
I also accept that the protection of the community is an important sentencing consideration in cases such as this and that the court must play a role in that regard. 
However, in my opinion, based on my experience as a judge this is properly described as an exceptional case. 
I now turn to your personal circumstances. 
You were born in Shanghai, China on 20 June 1990 and are now aged 27. 
You are an only child, unmarried and have no dependents. 
You completed your secondary and tertiary education in China and came to Australia on a student visa in 2012 and commenced a master of accounting degree at the University of Melbourne. 
You completed that degree in 2014 and are now a qualified accountant. 
You are employed by a clothing design company. 
I have received in evidence a number of character references that speak very highly of you and you have been engaged in community volunteering, assisting disadvantaged persons and refugees. 
You have completed a road trauma course and a defensive driving course since this tragic collision. 
I have also received in evidence two psychological reports of Mr Patrick Newton setting out your background and psychological profile. 
You are deeply remorseful for what occurred, including the injuries to the passengers of the other vehicle, and you have developed a depressive disorder as a result of your distress. 
You require ongoing treatment and counselling in relation to this. 
The collision has had, in effect, a devastating impact upon you and Mr Newton is firmly of the view that you require ongoing treatment in the community. 
In my opinion there is little or no risk of you re-offending and specific deterrence is not a factor in this case. 
Your prospects of rehabilitation may properly be described as excellent. 
Despite all the objective factors in this case that I have referred to the prosecution submitted that the only sentencing option available to me was one of imprisonment. 
As I made clear during the hearing of this case, I do not agree. 
In arriving at the conclusion that I have, I have had regard to the sentencing statistics provided to me and the particular observations of the Court of Appeal in Akoka [2017] VSCA 214 regarding the role that mercy plays in the sentencing synthesis. 
Quite apart from the facts I have recounted, yours is a case that clearly, in my opinion, engages that principle. 
In the result, I had you assessed for suitability for a Community Correction Order and you have been assessed as suitable in that regard. 
In my opinion, the purposes for which this sentence is to be imposed will clearly be met by the imposition of that disposition. 
In the result, the sentence of the court is as follows 
Without conviction, you are released on a Community Correction Order for a period of two years on the usual conditions. 
I direct that you undergo supervision during the period of the order and that you carry out 100 hours of unpaid community work. 
Do you agree to enter in a Community Correction Order on those terms? 
OFFENDER:  Yes. 
HIS HONOUR:  Thank you. 
I will sign the order, well, actually, can you come out of the dock and sign the order please? 
All drivers licences held by you in the State of Victoria are cancelled and you are disqualified from obtaining a licence for a period of 18 months. 
I do not propose to make an s.464ZF order in this case because in my opinion it is not in the interests of justice to do so. 
Are there any further orders required Mr Raimondo? 
MR RAIMONDO:  No, Your Honour. 
HIS HONOUR:  Mr Shocker? 
MR SHOCKER:  No, Your Honour. 
HIS HONOUR:  Thank you. 
A copy of that order will be made and provided to your client and you will explain it to her? 
MR SHOCKER:  I will, Your Honour. 
HIS HONOUR:  We will adjourn until 10.30. 
